Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP4322 
Subject Title  Internetworking Protocols, Software and Management 
Credit Value  3 
Level  4 
Pre-requisite /  Pre-requisite: COMP2322 
Co-requisite / 
Exclusion 
Objectives  The objectives of this subject are to: 
  let  students  acquire  foundational  understanding  on  the  concept  of 
Internetworking in terms of the technologies and techniques that drive Internet; 
  equip students with knowledge and understanding of the software aspects of 
protocol interactions, characteristics and its architecture; and 
  provide students with practical exposure of TCP/IP operations in the form of 
realistic and practical experiments. 
Intended  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Learning 
Outcomes  Professional/academic knowledge and skills 
(a)  identify and explain the essential components that drive internetworking; 
(b)  understand the important issues encompassing internetworking and how these 
issues affect the evolution of Internet and its applications; 
(c)  understand the complete architecture of Internetworking and the operations of 
underlying protocols and software; 
(d)  rapidly  learn  new  techniques  and  to  align  new  technologies  to  existing 
Internetworking infrastructure; and 
(e)  equipped with practical knowledge on configuring and managing network 
operations using Internet tools and software. 
Attributes for all-roundedness 
(f)  understand and solve internetworking problems in a systematic and principled 
approach; 
(g)  develop practical software and present results in the form of technical report; 
and 
(h)  learn to work effectively as a team member. 
Dec 2018  
Subject 
Topic 
Synopsis/ 
Indicative  1.   Hierarchical address routing; connecting LAN and WAN technologies; IP 
Syllabus  classful  addressing:  IP  classes,  special  IP  addresses,  subnet  addressing, 
multihome addresses; address resolution protocol and RARP. 
2.   Advanced addressing and IP. Supernetting; assigning address blocks; classless 
addressing; slash notation; IP packet format; ICMP error reporting. 
3.   Transport protocol. Transport services and protocols; protocol mechanisms 
including error, flow and congestion control; transport addressing; connection 
control;  connection  termination;  credit-based  flow  control;  silly  window 
syndrome: Nagle’s algorithm; TCP timers: setting timeouts; TCP congestion 
control: slow-start, multiplicative decrease and additive increase; TCP packet 
format; TCP state transitions; User Datagram Protocol. 
4.   Internet routing. Direct versus indirect internet  routing; routing methods; 
routing decisions; interior gateway routing versus exterior gateway routing; 
routing  protocols:  RIP  versus  OSPF,  BGP,  autonomous  systems;  OSPF 
routing  mechanisms:  area  border  routers,  Dijkstra’s  algorithm;  link  state 
routing. 
5.   Simple  Network  Management  Protocol:  Management  Information  Base 
(MIB); Structure of Management Information (SMI); SNMP protocol; setting 
traps. 
6.   Internet multicast. N-to-N unicast; proxy and Internet multicast; hardware 
multicast; Internet Group Management Protocol (IGMP); Distance Vector 
Multicast  Protocol  (DVMP);  Core  Base  Tree  (CBT)  multicast;  MOSPF; 
Protocol Independent Multicast (PIM); reliable multicast. 
7.   Internet services. BOOTP versus DHCP; Domain Name Services (DNS); 
Inverse  Domain  Mapping;  SMTP;  POP3;  IMAP4;  private  networks  and 
security: Virtual Private Networks (VPN); intranet versus extranet; private 
network addressing; IP Security (IPSec); Authentication Header mode versus 
Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP); Network Address Translation (NAT). 
 
Teaching/  During the lectures, students will be taught the basic concepts and foundational 
Learning  knowledge  on  Internet  protocols.  Whenever  possible,  to  reinforce  students 
Methodology  understanding of the concepts taught, practical case examples and studies will be 
included.   
During tutorials, students will be exposed to practical experiments related Internet 
protocols and software development. Several lab sessions will be setup to teach 
student to use software and tools that capture real Internet packets. Students can fully 
understand the protocols by inspecting the real Internet packets. In addition, students 
will be asked to design and implement application-level protocols using socket 
programming interface. 
Dec 2018  
Assessment 
Specific assessment  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to be 
Methods in 
methods/tasks  weighting  assessed (Please tick as appropriate) 
Alignment with 
Intended 
a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h 
Learning 
Outcomes 
Continuous 
50%                 
Assessment 
Examination  50%                 
Total   100%   
Explanation of the appropriateness of the assessment methods in assessing the 
intended learning outcomes: 
The course will be accessed by continuous assessments and a final examination. The 
continuous assessment methods include individual assignments, quizzes and group 
projects. 
The  individual  assessments  are  designed  to  help  students  reinforce  their 
understanding on the materials that are taught in the class. The questions are set with 
practical case examples that help students to apply the theory into practical solutions. 
This will help students to think independently and to assess individual student’s 
analytic and problem solving skills. Group projects are designed to help students 
work  collectively  on  a  large  problem  that  requires  collaborative  efforts  and 
coordination among group members. In addition, the projects will require them to 
write comprehensive  reports on the findings and, to  present  and communicate 
effectively to the audience.  Final exam is comprehensive.  It tests the knowledge of 
the whole course.
 
Student Study  Class contact: 
Effort Expected  
  Lecture  39 Hrs. 
  Laboratory  0 Hrs. 
Other student study effort: 
  Assignments, Coursework, Reading, Exam  66 Hrs. 
Total student study effort   105 Hrs. 
Reading List  Textbook: 
and References 
1.  Kurose, James F. and Ross, Keith W., Computer Networking: A Top-Down 
Approach, Fifth Edition, Addison Wesley, 2009. 
Reference Books: 
1.  Comer, Douglas, Internetworking with TCP/IP: Principles. Protocols, and 
Architectures, 5th Edition, Prentice Hall, 2005. 
2.  Stevens, W. Richard, TCP/IP Illustrated, Volume 1, Addison Wesley, 1994. 
3.  Tanenbaum, Andrew, Computer Networks, 5th Edition, Prentice Hall, 2010. 
Dec 2018 4.  Articles  from  IEEE/ACM  Transactions  on  Networking,  IEEE  Internet 
Computing, The Internet Protocol Journal, ACM Communications Magazine. 
 
Dec 2018 