Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP3235 
Subject Title  Software Project Management 
Credit Value  3 
Level  3 
Pre-requisite /   
Co-requisite / 
Exclusion 
Objectives  The objectives of this subject are to: 
  provide students a systematic approach to initiate, plan, execute, control and 
close a software project; 
  develop a good understanding of the nine project management areas, and the 
role of a typical project manager; 
  equip students with understanding of the best practices, and techniques used in 
project management processes; and 
  enable students to gain a good understanding of ISO 9000 and CMMI. 
Intended  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Learning 
Outcomes  Professional/academic knowledge and skills 
(a)  appreciate the importance of software project management; 
(b)  apply project management techniques for information systems development; 
and 
(c)  apply the management skills to monitor and control a software project. 
Attributes for all-roundedness 
(d)  work together as a team; 
(e)  communicate in writing a technical document; and 
(f)  communicate effectively in English for general project presentation. 
Dec 2018  
Subject 
Topic 
Synopsis/ 
Indicative  1.  Project Management Fundamentals 
Syllabus 
Attributes  of  project;  project  life  cycle;  project  management  processes; 
successful project manager; general management skills. 
2.  Project Integration Management 
Project  plan;  change  control;  configuration  management;  corrective  and 
preventive action. 
3.  Project Scope Management 
Project  charter;  net  present  value;  cost/benefit  analysis;  scope  planning, 
definition, verification and change control. 
4.  Project Time Management 
Project size and metrics; identifying activities; WBS; PBS; CPA; scheduling; 
critical chain. 
5.  Project Cost Management 
Estimation techniques; earned value analysis; COCOMO; resource planning; 
value analysis; cost management plan, budgeting and control. 
6.  Project Quality Management 
Quality model; quality definition; ISO 9001; CMMI; improvement cycle; 
trend analysis. 
7.  Human Resource Management 
Organization structure; stakeholder analysis; team building; conflict; effective 
team; reward and recognition systems. 
8.  Communication Management 
Communication means;  communication techniques for teams  of different 
sizes; barriers to communication; building effective team communication; 
reviews; performance reporting. 
9.  Risk Management 
Different types of risk; risk response planning; risk analysis; risk monitoring 
and control. 
10. Procurement Management 
Procurement  planning;  source  selection;  contract  administration;  contract 
closeout; negotiation. 
 
Teaching/  Lectures focus on introduction and explanation of key concepts and techniques. 
Learning  Tutorial and lab sessions provide students opportunity to practice the techniques and 
Methodology  tools presented in class. Assignments and project allow students to deepen their 
understanding of the concepts taught in class and apply the theory and techniques to 
software process and project management. Students will be encouraged to work in 
groups to share and present ideas, review other’s work, and develop teamwork skill. 
Dec 2018  
Assessment 
Specific assessment  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to be 
Methods in 
methods/tasks  weighting  assessed (Please tick as appropriate) 
Alignment with 
Intended 
a  b  c  d  e  f 
Learning 
Outcomes 
Continuous             
Assessment 
1. Assignments             
55% 
2. Lab Exercises             
3. Project             
4. Quizzes             
Examination  45%             
Total   100%   
Explanation of the appropriateness of the assessment methods in assessing the 
intended learning outcomes: 
Assignments, project and quizzes act as a measure on the understandings of the 
students on the basic concepts of the software project management.  
Project will be used to measure the understandings of the students about the current 
practice  in  process  and  project  management.  The  students  can  improve  their 
presentation and communication skills through the project presentation, and practice 
team work. Students can also develop their analytic and problem-solving skills. 
Examination will be used as an overall measure of the understandings of the students 
on software project management.
 
Student Study  Class contact: 
Effort Expected  
  Lecture  36 Hrs. 
  Tutorial/Lab  3 Hrs. 
Other student study effort: 
  Work on assignments and project, Self-Study  66 Hrs. 
Total student study effort   105 Hrs. 
Reading List  Textbook: 
and References 
1.  Schwalbe,  Kathy,  Information  Technology  Project  Management,  Cengage 
Learning, 2018. 
Reference Books: 
1.  A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge, Project Management 
Institute, 2013. 
Dec 2018 2.  Hughes, B., Cotterell, M., Software Project Management, McGraw-Hill, 2009. 
 
Dec 2018 