Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP1011 
Subject Title  Programming Fundamentals 
Credit Value  3 
Level  1 
Pre-requisite /   
Co-requisite / 
Exclusion 
Objectives  The objectives of this subject are to: 
  provide students with knowledge on the fundamental elements in computer 
programming; and 
  introduce  advanced  computer  programming  techniques  necessary  for 
developing more sophisticated computer application programs. 
Intended  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Learning 
Outcomes  Professional/academic knowledge and skills 
(a)  understand the programming elements for solving computing-related problems; 
(b)  possess the ability to design and develop efficient computer programs for 
solving problems; and 
(c)  possess  the  ability  to  learn  other  high  level  programming  languages 
independently. 
Attributes for all-roundedness 
(d)  develop skills in problem solving using systematic approaches;  
(e)  identify and develop problem solutions in a logical manner; and 
(f)  solve complex problems in groups and develop group work. 
 
Subject 
Topic 
Synopsis/ 
Indicative  1.  Fundamentals of Computing. Basic concepts of computers and computing, 
Syllabus  compilation and interpretation, elementary programming constructs. 
2.  Flow controls. Basic flow control: selection, repetition and functions. 
3.  Data Collections. Structures, lists, sets and strings 
4.  Program Design. Problem solving, problem correctness, testing and debugging 
 
Teaching/  This subject emphasizes both the conceptual elements in computer programming and 
Learning  practical experiences. Teaching includes both lectures and hands-on Lab exercises 
Methodology  reinforcing taught concepts. Students should attend both lectures and laboratory 
Dec 2018 sessions. Continuous assessments help to reinforce the programming concepts and 
skills learned for applications. 
 
Assessment 
Specific assessment  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to be 
Methods in 
methods/tasks  weighting  assessed (Please tick as appropriate) 
Alignment with 
Intended 
a  b  c  d  e  f 
Learning 
Outcomes 
Continuous             
Assessment 
1. Assignments             
65% 
2. Quizzes             
3. Project(s)             
Final Examination  35%             
Total   100%   
Note:  Students  must  pass  both  the  continuous  assessment  and  examination 
components to pass the course. The continuous assessment and the final examination 
will be designed to assess the specified learning outcomes. The formats may include 
written questions, programming exercises and quizzes. 
Student Study  Class contact: 
Effort Expected  
  Lecture  39 Hrs. 
  Lab  13 Hrs. 
Other student study effort: 
  Assignments, Quizzes, Projects, Exam  68 Hrs. 
Total student study effort   120 Hrs. 
Reading List  Reference Books: 
and References 
1.  Prata, Stephen, C Primer Plus, 6th Edition, Addison-Wesley Professional, 2013. 
2.  King, K. N., C Programming: A Modern Approach, 2nd Edition, W. W. Norton 
& Company, 2008. 
3.  Kernighan, B. W. and Ritchie, D. M., C Programming Language, 2nd Edition, 
Prentice Hall, 1988. 
4.  Spraul, V. Anton, Think Like a Programmer: An Introduction to Creative 
Problem Solving, No Starch Press, 2012. (examples in this book are written in 
C++, but will improve your ability to think like a programmer in any language) 
5.  Zelle, John, Python Programming: An Introduction to Computer Science, 2nd 
Edition, Franklin, Beedle & Associates, 2010. 
 
Dec 2018 