Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP4123 
Subject Title  Business Process and Workflow Management 
Credit Value  3 
Level  4 
Pre-requisite /   
Co-requisite / 
Exclusion 
Objectives  The objectives of this subject are to: 
  present a process-oriented view to business modeling and the application of 
workflow technologies to business process engineering; and 
  equip students with the fundamental knowledge of workflow management 
systems. 
Intended  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Learning 
Outcomes  Professional/academic knowledge and skills 
(a)  understand the role of business processes in modern enterprises; 
(b)  understand the basic steps in business process engineering/re-engineering; 
(c)  understand the application of workflow technologies to process modeling and 
implementation; 
(d)  understand the building blocks of a workflow management system; 
(e)  understand the existing industrial workflow standards; and 
(f)  apply workflow technologies to solve business problems. 
Attributes for all-roundedness 
(g)  improve  presentation  and  communication  skills  (through  case  study 
presentations); and 
(h)  learn independently and to find/integrate information from different sources 
required in solving real-life problems. 
Dec 2018  
Subject 
Topic 
Synopsis/ 
Indicative  1.  Introduction to Business Process 
Syllabus 
Modern  business  environment;  process-oriented  view  to  organizations; 
examples of business processes. 
2.  Business Process Engineering 
Process analysis; process re-engineering; business engineering and workflow. 
3.  Fundamental Concepts of Workflow 
Major components of a workflow management system; Buildtime metamodel: 
process data, activities, control flow, data flow; Runtime system structure; 
workflows and objects. 
4.  Advanced Functions of Workflow 
Events;  dynamic  modification  of  workflows;  advanced  join  conditions; 
container materialization; context management; performance spheres; compile 
spheres; transactions. 
5.  Workflow Systems Architecture 
Application structure; middleware; Internet and mobile workflow; emergent 
technologies. 
6.  Workflow Standards 
OMG’s Workflow Management Facility; Workflow Management Coalition 
standards. 
Case Study: 
Presentations will be held during the seminars, where the students will form groups 
to read and present real-life cases related to the subject's topics.
 
Teaching/  Lectures focus on the introduction and explanation of key concepts. 
Learning 
Methodology  Seminars provide students with the opportunity to deepen their understanding of the 
concepts taught in lectures and to apply the theories to the analysis of real-life issues. 
Dec 2018  
Assessment 
Specific assessment  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to be 
Methods in 
methods/tasks  weighting  assessed (Please tick as appropriate) 
Alignment with 
Intended 
a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h 
Learning 
Outcomes 
Continuous                 
Assessment 
1. Assignments                 
55% 
2. Project                 
3. Mid-Term                 
Examination  45%                 
Total   100%   
The course will be expected to be accessed using both examination and coursework 
including assignments, project and mid-term examination. 
Assignments, project and mid-term examination can be act as a measure on the 
understandings of the students on the basic concepts of the business process and 
building blocks of a workflow management system. 
In addition, project can be used to measure the understandings of the students about 
the current industrial workflow standards. The students could be further improve 
their presentation and communication skills through the project presentation. 
Examination can be used as an overall measure of the understandings of the students 
on the workflow concepts, technologies and understand the existing standards which 
discussed in the lectures.
 
Student Study  Class contact: 
Effort Expected  
  Lecture  39 Hrs. 
  Tutorial  0 Hrs. 
Other student study effort: 
  Reading and Self-Learning  66 Hrs. 
Total student study effort   105 Hrs. 
Reading List  Reference Books: 
and References 
1.  Jeston,  John,  Business  Process  Management:  Practical  Guidelines  to 
Successful Implementations, 4th Edition, Routledge, 2018. 
2.  Weskem,  M.,  Business  Process  Management  Concepts,  Languages, 
Architectures, Springer, 2007. 
3.  Chang,  J.  F.,  Business  Process  Management  Systems:  Strategy  and 
Implementation, Boca Raton, FL: Auerbach Publications, 2006. 
Dec 2018 4.  van der Aalst, W. and van Hee, K., Workflow Management: Models, Methods, 
and Systems, The MIT Press, Paperback Edition, 2004. 
5.  Ficher, L. (ed.), Workflow Handbook 2004, Future Strategies Inc., 2004. 
6.  Leymann, F. and Roller, D., Production Workflow: Concepts and Techniques, 
Prentice-Hall, 2000. 
7.  Schael,  T.,  Workflow  Management  Systems  for  Process  Organisations, 
Springer, 1998.   
8.  Articles  from  journals,  magazines,  and  conference  proceedings,  including 
Emerald Business Process Management Journal, ACM TOCS, ACM TODS, 
IEEE TKDE, IEEE TSE, IEEE TOC, CACM, IEEE Computer, ICDE, CIKM. 
 
Dec 2018 