 
Subject Description Form
 
 
 
Subject Code  COMP 3512 
Subject Title  Legal Aspects, Professionalism and Ethics of Computing 
Credit Value  3 
Pre-requisite /     Pre-requisite/Co-requisite: Nil 
  Co-requisite/   
Exclusion 
Objectives    To  be  fully  aware  of  the  basic  set  of  legal,  ethical  and  security 
responsibilities; 
 
  To introduce relevant professional bodies and be able to apply codes of 
conduct and ethical standards as a computing/IT practitioner; 
  To be in a position to deal with ethical dilemmas and legal challenges 
that they can expect to face when they start work. 
Intended Learning  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Outcomes 
Professional/academic knowledge and skills 
  (a) Demonstrate  an  understanding  of  professional  issues,  including 
contemporary  legislation,  and  ethical  considerations,  from  the 
viewpoint of computing/IT professionals; 
(b) Apply the conceptual tools provided in the course to develop analytical 
skills for determining what to do in ethical and legal decision making  
Attributes for all-roundedness 
(c) communicate effectively both verbally and in writing as a professional 
in computing/IT; 
(d) learn independently for problem solving and solution seeking; 
(e) think  and  reason  critically,  especially  on  different  issues  related  to 
computing/IT professional in the society. 
Programme  Outcome  7:  This  subject  contributes  to  train  students  with  an 
Contribution of the 
understanding  of  professional,  ethical,  legal,  security  and  social  issues  and 
Subject to the 
responsibilities. 
Attainment of the 
 
Programme  Programme Outcome 8: This subject contributes to nurture students to communicate 
Outcomes  effectively with a range of audiences. 
 
Programme Outcome 10: This subject contributes to let student recognise the need for 
and engage in continuing professional development. 
 1.  Introduction  
Subject Synopsis/ 
A brief account of the development of computing/IT industry; exploration of 
Indicative Syllabus 
computing technologies whose impact is likely to grow in the near future.  
2.  Computer ethics and profession 
 
Generic skills; typical scenarios of profession; characteristics of a profession; 
the system of professions; the computing profession; social issues. 
3.  Professional bodies and codes of ethics 
Role  and  functions  of  professional  bodies;  professional  bodies  for 
computing/IT practitioners; Impact of computing/IT professional bodies;  
4.  Methods and tools for ethical analysis 
Traditional/philosophical ethics; policy vacuum; social context; competing 
factors in decision making; practical approach/ analysis; sample cases. 
5.  Computer crimes and laws 
Computer  criminals;  computer  fraud;  computer  sabotage;  computer 
forensics 
6.  Privacy  
Personal privacy; computer and privacy; relevant privacy acts 
7.  Software ownership and intellectual property 
       Ethical/legal issues of software; intellectual property; property rights; legal 
protection; philosophical basis; consequentialist argument. 
8.  Security 
Fundamental concepts about security, Security at e-commerce, Security and 
legislation 
9.  Entrepreneurship 
Emerging  technologies;  entrepreneurship  in  computing  profession; 
professional capabilities extended through virtual firms. 
This  subject  emphasizes  both  ethical  and  legal  aspects  of  computing/IT 
Teaching/Learning 
professional. It is intended to provide students with knowledge and practical 
Methodology  
experience on ethical, technological and legal issues related to computing. 
Lectures would cover the conceptual aspects. Guest lectures with external 
 
speakers  provide  students  with  knowledge  from  another  perspective. 
Laboratory and tutorial sessions focus on the exercises to gain understanding 
both of what being a professional in computing involves and how they can 
most effectively deal with the challenges they will encounter. 
 
 
Assessment 
Methods in  Specific  % weighting  Intended subject learning outcomes to 
Alignment with  assessment  be assessed (Please tick as appropriate) 
Intended Learning  methods/tasks  
Outcomes  a  b  c  d  e   
  1.  Continuous             
Assessment 
Assignments             
100% 
Tests             
Projects             
Presentations             
2. Exam  0%             Total   100 %   
 
Student Study  Class contact:   
Effort Expected  
    Lecture  39 Hrs. 
  Tutorial/Lab   0 Hrs. 
Other student study effort:   
  Assignments, Quizzes, Projects, and Tests  66 Hrs. 
Total student study effort   105 Hrs. 
Reading List and    Herman  T.  Tavani  (2011)  Ethics  and  Technology:  Controversies, 
References  Questions, and Strategies for Ethical Computing, Hoboken, N.J.: Wiley, 
3rd Edition. 
  Deborah  G.  Johnson  and  Keith  W.  Miller  (2009)  Computer  Ethics: 
Analyzing  Information  Technology.  Upper  Saddle  River,  N.J.:  Prentice 
Hall, 4th Edition. 
  Tobias  Kollmann,  Andreas  Kuckertz,  Christoph  Stèockmann  (2010)  E-
Entrepreneurship  and  ICT  Ventures:  Strategy,  Organization  and 
Technology, Hershey, PA: Business Science Reference.  
  Thomas  N.  Duening,  Robert  D.  Hisrich,  Michael  A.  Lechter  (2010) 
Technology Entrepreneurship: Creating, Capturing, and Protecting Value, 
Burlington, MA: Academic Press. 
 