Subject Description Form (Draft) 
 
 
Subject Code  COMP4001 
Subject Title  Internship 
Credit Value  12 Training Credits  
Level  4 
Pre-requisite /      Exclusion: COMP4000    
Co-requisite/ 
Exclusion 
Objectives    To provide the opportunity for students, companies and the University to 
interact; this interaction brings about a unique learning environment not 
  available on campus. 
  To  let  students  gain  working  experience  by  practicing  techniques 
acquired  in  the  classroom,  such  as  system  analysis,  design, 
implementation, testing and/or maintenance. 
  To  let  students  learn  how  to  interact  effectively,  efficiently  and 
professionally with others. 
Intended Learning  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Outcomes 
 Professional/academic knowledge and skills 
 
(a)  relate academic principles to social and technical environments; 
(b)  gain knowledge, confidence, and maturity, which help complete the 
undergraduate study more successfully; 
(c)  gain  better  understanding  of  computing  practices  and  professional 
knowledge; 
Attributes for all-roundedness 
(d)  build up a good degree of understanding of business/industrial practice 
which is usually not available in the campus; 
(e)  apply those principles learnt in the classroom to real-life problems and 
work environment; 
(f)  improve interpersonal, communication and other soft skills. 
 
Alignment of Programme Outcomes: 
Programme  Outcome  1:  This  subject  contributes  to  this  outcome  through 
internship with a company (e.g., communicating and presenting ideas in a real-
 life work environment). 
Programme  Outcome  4:  This  subject  contributes  to  this  outcome  through 
internship with a company (e.g., solving real-life problems through critical 
thinking). 
Programme  Outcome  5:  This  subject  contributes  to  this  outcome  through 
internship with a company (e.g., solving real-life problems using computing 
knowledge). 
Programme  Outcome  6:  This  subject  contributes  to  this  outcome  through 
internship  with  a  company  (e.g.,  learning  new  technologies  and  practical 
techniques required by a company). 
Programme  Outcome  7:  This  subject  contributes  to  this  outcome  through 
internship with a company (e.g., working with other people in a company for 
completing a project). 
Subject Synopsis/  N/A 
Indicative Syllabus 
Teaching/Learning  Placement Procedure: 
Methodology  
In general, students work in a company for at least 24 weeks during the second 
  semester  and  summer  semester  of  Year  3.  International  internship  is  also 
possible. Students may extend the internship period to more than 24 weeks 
(e.g., 32 weeks from January to August). In most cases, it is expected that 
students can still complete the academic programme within four years (e.g., by 
taking more subjects before and after the internship). Note that students may 
take subjects offered in the evening and/or on Saturdays during the internship 
period.  The  detailed  internship  procedures  are  contained  in  a  separate 
document prepared by the Department, and its essence includes: 
(1) solicitation of suitable internship by the Department; 
(2) helping students arrange job interviews;   
(3) helping students confirm internship offers with contracts.   
Prior to the internship, students are counselled, and a set of relevant documents 
on placement procedures will be provided. Normally, students should complete 
certain requirements on the skill sets (please refer to the Definitive Programme 
Document) before they can opt for internship. 
During internship, the Department assigns an academic staff as the WIE (Work-
Integrated  Education)  supervisor  for  each  student.  The  WIE  supervisor  is 
encouraged to visit the students within the first two months of the internship 
period. The purpose is to help the student whenever possible, and to liaise with 
the company to settle with any early problem detected. 
The learning outcomes by the student should be specified in an agreement 
form,  which  upon  endorsement  by  the  Department,  will  be  used  as  an 
evaluation yardstick against the student during the internship. Students must 
submit a written report detailing his/her achievement during the internship 
 period, with a reflection on the learning outcomes attained. 
 
Assessment Methods 
in Alignment with  Specific assessment  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to be 
Intended Learning  methods/tasks   weighting  assessed 
Outcomes 
a  b  c  d  e  f 
 
Continuous assessment  100%  x  x  x  x  x  x 
and internship report  
Total   100 %   
 
Explanation  of  the  appropriateness  of  the  assessment  methods  in  assessing  the 
intended learning outcomes: 
Assessment of internship is based on the following: 
1)  continuous assessment by the WIE supervisor through site visits, and by the 
company; 
2)  final internship report submitted by the student when the internship has ended. 
The final assessment of an internship report is either pass or fail, with respect to the 
two items above. It carries 12 training credits, and the credits do not count towards 
the academic credits for graduation, nor do they contribute to the GPA calculation. 
Under normal situations, a failing grade may be awarded when the student does not 
complete the required internship duration, or performs poorly during the internship, in 
not achieving the agreed learning outcomes. 
Student Study 
Effort Required   Internship training or experiential learning  At least 24 weeks 
 
Reading List and  N/A 
References 
 
 