 
Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP3121 
Subject Title  Social and Collaborative Computing 
Credit Value  3 
Level  3 
Pre-requisite /   
Co-requisite / 
Exclusion 
Objectives  The objectives of this subject are to: 
    provide students with an understanding on the concepts, history, background, 
and the design principles of social computing; 
  provide students with an understanding on the behavior of social networks and 
applications of social computing; 
  equip students with design and development experience on social network data 
collection and analysis; 
  provide students with understanding on social network analysis; and 
  provide students with special topics of social computing, e.g., privacy, security, 
business models. 
Intended  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Learning 
Outcomes  Professional/academic knowledge and skills 
  (a)  understand the concepts, background and design principles behind different 
social networks; 
(b)  understand the behavior of the new social interaction methods and apply social 
computing to different scenarios in industry and society; 
(c)  design and develop tools for analysis of social network websites; 
(d)  understand the principles and methods used in analyzing social networks; and 
(e)  understand the specific social issues associated with social computing. 
Attributes for all-roundedness 
(f)  solve problems using systematic approaches, both independently and in groups; 
and 
(g)  learn independently and be able to search for the information required in solving 
problems. 
Dec 2018  
 
Subject 
Topic 
Synopsis/ 
Indicative  1.  Introduction to Social Computing 
Syllabus 
History, concepts, importance and definitions. 
 
2.  Technology of Social Computing 
Blogging, collaborative filtering, Internet search, social media and networking, 
Wikipedia and wikis. The background of the Internet. Web 2.0. 
3.  Behavior of Social Computing 
Motivations and Social psychology. Online credibility. Social impacts. Social 
roles  in  online  environments.  Design  and  organization  of  online  social 
websites. 
4.  Culture of Social Networks 
Authoring. Globalization. Social Presence. Virtual communities.  
5.  Policies of Social Networks 
Privacy. Intellectual property. Business models. 
6.  Applications of Social Networks 
Social network marketing. Data trending.  
7.  Modeling of Social Networks 
Social attributes of nodes and networks. Online social network modeling and 
data collection.  
 
 
Teaching/  During the lectures, students will come across the concepts, methods, and associated 
Learning  issues of social computing. Tutorials in labs will be used to allow students to work 
Methodology   on small individual problems which will give them the prerequisite knowledge for 
the comprehensive problems. Videos such as seminars given by chief architects of 
  social networks (e.g. Facebook) will be used to allow students to have a better 
understanding of the history and architecture choices behind the social networks. 
Assessments will consist of assignments and projects. Assignments may be written 
reports, oral presentations, or programming assignments, which will be designed to 
give students hands-on experience with social computing issues. There will be 
midterm and final exams to evaluate comprehensively the concepts absorbed by the 
students. 
Dec 2018  
 
Assessment 
Specific assessment  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to 
Methods in 
methods/tasks  weighting  be assessed (Please tick as 
Alignment with 
appropriate) 
Intended 
Learning 
a  b  c  d  e  f  g 
Outcomes 
Continuous Assessment  60%               
 
Final Examination  40%               
Total   100 %   
 
Student Study  Class contact: 
Effort Expected  
  Lectures  39 Hrs. 
 
  Tutorials/Lab  0 Hrs. 
Other student study effort: 
  Assignments, Projects, Reports, Tests  66 Hrs. 
Total student study effort   105 Hrs. 
Reading List  Reference Books: 
and References 
1.  Golbeck, Jennifer, Analyzing the Social Web, Morgan Kaufmann, 2013. 
2.  Easley, David and Kleinberg, Jon, Networks, Crowds, and Markets: Reasoning 
About a Highly Connected World, Cambridge University Press, 2010. 
3.  Tapscott,  Don  and  Williams,  Anthony  D.,  Wikinomics:  How  Mass 
Collaboration Changes Everything, 2008. 
4.  Christakis, N. and Fowler, J., Connected: The Surprising Power of Our Social 
Networks and How They Shape Our Lives, Little, Brown and Company, 2009. 
5.  Watts, Duncan, Six Degrees: The Science of a Connected Age, W.W. Norton & 
Company, 2004. 
6.  Bell, Gavin, Building Social Web Applications, O’Reilly, 2009. 
7.  Martin, John L., Social Structure, Princeton University Press, 2009. 
8.  Hillstrom, Laurie Collier, Online Social Networks, Lucent Books, 2010. 
 
Dec 2018 