Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP3335 
Subject Title  Database Security 
Credit Value  3 
Level  3 
Pre-requisite /  Pre-requisite: COMP2411 or equivalent introductory database subject 
Co-requisite / 
Exclusion 
Objectives  The objectives of this subject are to: 
  introduce  to  students  about  security  threats  with  respect  to  database 
applications; 
  equip students with knowledge of security measures and understanding on the 
concepts in protecting data; and 
  equip students with skills to design and implement secure database applications 
with respect to the security requirements. 
Intended  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Learning 
Outcomes  Professional/Academic Knowledge and Skills 
(a)  identify security threats in database systems; 
(b)  understand the concepts and security mechanisms in the protection of data; and 
(c)  design and implement secure database systems. 
Attributes for All-Roundness 
(d)  develop skills in problem solving; and 
(e)  solve complex problems in team and function effectively in a team environment 
to achieve a common goal. 
Contribution of  Programme  Outcome  3:  this  subject  contributes  to  developing  students’ 
the Subject to  understanding in security requirements in modern database systems. 
the Attainment 
of the  Programme Outcome 4: this subject empowers the students to design and implement 
Programme  database applications to meet the security requirements 
Outcomes 
Programme  Outcome  6:  this  subject  contributes  to  cultivating  teamwork  spirit 
through group project. 
Dec 2018  
Subject 
Topic 
Synopsis/ 
Indicative  1.  Overview of Database Concepts  
Syllabus 
Common  database  technologies  and  database  application  architectures, 
including ER modelling and existing relational database management systems 
such  as  MySQL  and  Oracle;  advanced  database  technologies,  including 
object-oriented databases and distributed databases. 
2.  Introduction to Database Security  
Threats to databases; commonly accepted security goals (integrity, availability 
and confidentiality); kinds of security control measures. 
3.  Access Control 
Database  authorization,  including  discretionary  security  mechanisms  and 
mandatory security mechanisms. 
4.  File System Security 
FATm NTFS, HFS, disk encryption. 
5.  Inference Control  
Nature of statistical database and the inference control mechanism to prevent 
detailed confidential information. 
6.  Advanced Topics  
Including security threats with respect to SQL injection attacks, virtual private 
databases  and  database  auditing,  searchable  encryption,  blockchain  and 
decentralized storage. 
 
Teaching/  During the lectures, students will come across the common concepts and theories in 
Learning  database security issues. Those concepts and theories would be explained with 
Methodology  reference to real database systems such as Oracle and MySQL.  
Hands-on exercises in  tutorial/laboratory will be included to  allow students to 
explore and analyse practical problems and topics. Group project to solve database 
security problems will help students to integrate and apply what they have learnt. 
Dec 2018  
Assessment 
Specific assessment  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to 
Methods in 
methods/tasks  weighting  be assessed (Please tick as 
Alignment with 
appropriate) 
Intended 
Learning 
a  b  c  d  e 
Outcomes 
Continuous Assessment  55%           
Examination  45%           
Total   100%   
Types  of  assessments  include  assignments,  project,  test  and  examination. 
Assignments are designed to reinforce the concepts and mechanisms learned in the 
lecture and laboratory, by solving bigger problems. Project is used to develop 
students’ analytic and problem solving skills by developing a practical database 
security policy. Test and examination are used to assess independent problem solving 
and critical thinking skills.
 
Student Study  Class contact: 
Effort Expected  
  Lecture  39Hrs. 
Other student study effort: 
  Assignments, Projects, Self-study, Test and Exam 
66 Hrs. 
Preparation 
Total student study effort   105 Hrs. 
Reading List  Reference Books: 
and References 
1.  Afyouni, Hassan A., Database Security and Auditing: Protecting Data Integrity 
and Accessibility, Course Technology, ISBN 0619215593, 2006. 
2.  Basta, Alfred and Zgola, Melissa, Database Security, Cengage Learning, ISBN 
1435453905, 2011. 
 
Dec 2018 