Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP4127 
Subject Title  Information Systems Audit and Control 
Credit Value  3 
Level  4 
Pre-requisite /   
Co-requisite / 
Exclusion 
Objectives  The objectives of this subject are to: 
  recap of different information systems in operation and their management; 
  extend the potential graduates’ horizon into the realm of audit and control 
aspects of information management; 
  evaluate the effectiveness of information systems; and 
  integrate  the  elements  of  risk  assessment  and  cybersecurity  in  project 
management. 
Intended  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Learning 
Outcomes  Professional/academic knowledge and skills 
(a)  apply the concept of risk assessment and cybersecurity in auditing of managing 
information systems and project management; 
(b)  identify various types of controls and develop new control measures; and 
(c)  conduct audit exercises, collect and evaluate audit evidence. 
Attributes for all-roundedness 
(d)  improve presentation and communication skills through various exercises; 
(e)  develop the ability to conduct group works and solve related problems; and 
(f)  think and reason in a critical manner, especially on different issues related to 
audit and control. 
Dec 2018  
Subject 
Topic 
Synopsis/ 
Indicative  1.  Information Systems Audit and Control  
Syllabus 
Nature of IS audit; concepts of auditing; types of audit; concepts of internal 
controls. 
2.  Management Controls  
Top management control frameworks: CobiT, COSO; ISO27001; systems 
development management controls; programming management controls. 
3.  Applications Controls 
Boundary controls; input/output controls; data validation edit and controls, 
processing controls; business process controls; testing application systems. 
4.  Evidence Collection and Evaluation 
Nature of evidence; evidence collection; computer-assisted audit techniques; 
analysis and review. 
5.  Protection of Information Assets 
Information  security  management;  risk  management  concepts  and 
methodologies; the process and components of information assets and risk 
management. 
6.  The Application of IS Audit and Control 
The application of IS audit and control in financial systems and industry; 
Basel; case studies. 
7.  Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery 
Concepts; the planning process and components; case studies. 
 
Teaching/  This subject emphasizes both theoretical and practical aspects of information systems 
Learning  audit and control. It is intended to provide students with knowledge and practical 
Methodology  experience on conducting information systems audit projects. Guest seminars from 
the audit industry will be included. Various auditing tools, data analytics, simulations 
and exercises on information system audit will be provided in laboratory and tutorial 
sessions. 
Dec 2018  
Assessment 
Specific assessment  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to be 
Methods in 
methods/tasks  weighting  assessed (Please tick as appropriate) 
Alignment with 
Intended 
a  b  c  d  e  f 
Learning 
Outcomes 
Continuous             
Assessment 
55% 
1. Assignments, Tests & 
           
Projects 
Examination  45%             
Total   100%   
 
Student Study  Class contact: 
Effort Expected  
  Lecture  39 Hrs. 
  Tutorial/Lab  0 Hrs. 
Other student study effort: 
  Assignments, Quizzes, Projects, Exam  80 Hrs. 
Total student study effort   119 Hrs. 
Reading List  References: 
and References 
1.  CISA Review Manual, ISACA publications.  
2.  CRISC Review Manual, ISACA Publications. 
3.  CISSP CBK, ISC2 publication 
4.  Calder, Alan and Watkins, Steve, IT Governance – An international guide to 
data security and ISO27001/ISO27002. 
5.  Whitman, Michael E. and Mattord, Herbert J., Management of Information 
Security, Cengage. 
6.  ISACA Journal 
7.  The Computer Journal, British Computer Society 
8.  Harvard Business Review 
 
Dec 2018 