Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP3422 
Subject Title  Creative Digital Media Design 
Credit Value  3 
Level  3 
Pre-requisite /  Pre-requisite: COMP2011 
Co-requisite / 
Exclusion 
Objectives  The objectives of this subject are to: 
  provide  the  foundation  knowledge  of  multimedia  computing,  e.g.  media 
characteristics,  compression  standards,  multimedia  representation,  data 
formats, multimedia technology development; 
  provide intuitive experience of multimedia computing, multimedia system 
design and implementations; and 
  provide  basic  idea  and  training  of  creative  media  design  and  system 
implementation. 
Intended  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Learning 
Outcomes  Professional/academic knowledge and skills 
(a)  understand the characteristics of different media; understand the representations 
of different multimedia data; understand different data formats; be able to take 
into considerations in multimedia system designs; 
(b)  understand  the  characteristics  of  human  information  processing,  including 
processing, perception and cognition, and to be able to take into considerations 
in multimedia techniques design and implementation; 
(c)  understand  different  methods  and  techniques  in  storing,  processing  and 
analysing multimedia content and be able to design and develop multimedia 
systems according to the requirements of multimedia applications; 
(d)  program  multimedia  data  and  be  able  to  design  and  implement  media 
applications; and 
(e)  understand the basic idea and principle of creative media design and system 
implementation. 
Attributes for all-roundedness 
(f)  learn  independently  and  search  for  the  information  required  in  solving 
problems. 
Dec 2018  
Subject 
Topic 
Synopsis/ 
Indicative  1.  Overview of Multimedia Computing 
Syllabus 
Definitions, terms, terminologies, characteristics and requirements of different 
media; components of multimedia systems. 
2.  Human Information Processing  
Characteristics and limitations of human visual, audio and haptic system, 
human perception and cognition. 
3.  Multimedia Data Representation, Compression and Storage 
Representation of sound/audio, image and video; compression principles; 
entropy and hybrid coding; compression standards. 
4.  Multimedia Coding, Analysis and Compression 
Coding  requirements;  speech  generation,  analysis  and  software;  image 
analysis, display, and printing. 
5.  Developments in Multimedia Technology  
Multimedia history, technology development, challenging problems, current 
research topics, multimedia industry. 
 
Teaching/  A mix of lectures and lab sessions is used to deliver the various topics in this subject. 
Learning  Lectures are conducted to initiate students with the concepts and techniques of 
Methodology  multimedia computing that are reinforced by in-class exercises and quizzes. Lab 
sessions will be used to illustrate the practical problems and to train multimedia 
design ability. Students are given the opportunity to gain hands-on experience on 
designing and implementing a multimedia application. 
 
Assessment 
Specific assessment  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to be 
Methods in 
methods/tasks  weighting  assessed (Please tick as appropriate) 
Alignment with 
Intended 
a  b  c  d  e  f 
Learning 
Outcomes 
Continuous 
55%             
Assessment 
Examination  45%             
Total   100%   
Explanation of the appropriateness of the assessment methods in assessing the 
intended learning outcomes: 
Continuous assessments consist of project, quizzes and/or midterms, which are 
designed to facilitate students to achieve intended learning outcomes. The quizzes 
are designed to drive students to review how comprehensively and correctly they 
have understood the knowledge concepts, principles, and theories taught in the 
subject.  The  project  is  designed  to  enhance  students’  ability  to  acquire  the 
understanding and using different multimedia computing principles, techniques, 
tools to solve a real problem.  
Dec 2018 Examination  will  evaluate  student’s  understanding  and  usage  of  multimedia 
computing knowledge, e.g. concepts, principles, techniques, and standards.
 
Student Study  Class contact: 
Effort Expected  
  Lecture  26 Hrs. 
  Tutorial/Lab  13 Hrs. 
Other student study effort: 
  Prepare for Quizzes and Exam  30 Hrs. 
  Project Work  37 Hrs. 
Total student study effort   106 Hrs. 
Reading List  Textbook: 
and References 
1.  Friedland,  Gerald  and  Jain,  Ramesh,  Multimedia  Computing,  Cambridge 
University Press, 2014. 
References: 
1.  Proceedings of ACM Multimedia (ACMMM) 
2.  ACM  Transactions  on  Multimedia  Computing,  Communications  and 
Applications (ACM TOMM) 
3.  IEEE Transactions on Affective Computing (IEEE TAC) 
4.  Relevant articles from other conferences and/or journals 
 
Dec 2018 