Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP4122 
Subject Title  Game Design and Development 
Credit Value  3 
Level  4 
Pre-requisite /  Pre-requisite: COMP2011 
Co-requisite / 
Exclusion 
Objectives  The objectives of this subject are to: 
  provide students with a broad view of the nature of computer games and digital 
entertainment; 
  equip  students  with  the knowledge  and skills  in  the analysis, design  and 
development of interactive computer games and mixed reality applications; 
  allow students to explore and use the different algorithms, techniques and tools 
in rendering and producing animations in 3D computer games; 
  equip students with knowledge in game AI, multi-user games and networking 
games; 
  guide students to study and evaluate the social impact of computer game. 
Intended  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Learning 
Outcomes  Professional/academic knowledge and skills 
(a)  understand the history, evolution and recent development in computer games; 
(b)  understand the overall hardware and software architecture of a typical 3D 
computer game; 
(c)  familiarize with the different practical analysis, design and implementation 
techniques that apply to the development of computer games across different 
platforms; 
(d)  learn game design, testing, and playability principles; 
(e)  learn the computing game programming aspects, such as event loops, execution 
threads, rendering, animation, terrain and background representation, polygonal 
models, texturing, collision detection and physically-based modeling, game AI, 
and multi-user games and networking; and 
(f)  understand the social impact of computer games. 
Attributes for all-roundedness 
(g)  work in a team to build a 3D computer game; 
Dec 2018 (h)  communicate effectively and present, both in terms of an oral presentation and 
a written report, the result of developing a 3D computer game; and 
(i)  appreciate the broader perspectives of digital entertainment, and social impact 
of computer games. 
 
Subject 
Topic 
Synopsis/ 
Indicative  1.  Introduction and game history. Early origins of video games and computer 
Syllabus  game design and programming; arcade games; some popular home game 
systems; game design methodology and principles; current development in 
computer game industry. 
2.  Game software, hardware and platforms. Different game platforms: Web-
based, console-based (e.g., play station, X-box, Switch), PC-based, handheld 
games, mobile and wireless game platforms. 
3.  Game  design  principles.  Game  psychology  and  game  sociology.  Human 
characteristics as information processors and players in gaming environment. 
Cognitive principles for game design.  
4.  Programming and implementation techniques in computer games. 3D models, 
geometry, rotation, and quaternion interpolation; camera control, texturing, 
terrain, lighting, level of details (LOD), collision detection; shading, non-
photorealistic rendering, image-based rendering. 
5.  Game behavior and game AI. Algorithms in game animations: acceleration, 
motion analysis, game physics, path finding, chasing and evading, pattern 
movement, flocking, obstacle avoidance, swarming, learning the opponent 
behaviors; search and heuristics in games, finite state machines, decision trees.  
6.  Languages and tools in game programming. C#, C, Unity 3D, and other 
authoring tools for various components in the game, such as graphics, audios, 
sound digitizer, and the like.  
7.  Social  impacts  of  computer  games.  Gender,  race,  social  and  cultural 
characteristics in computer games; youth violence and digital entertainment 
software rating; future of computer games. 
 
Teaching/  During the lectures, students will come across the common concepts, methods, and 
Learning  issues  in  computer  game  analysis,  design  and  development,  and  will  be 
Methodology  supplemented by exercises in games evaluation, and development. 
During the labs / tutorials, students will have the opportunity to practice, apply, and 
present what they have learned, and form in groups to develop a computer game 
which forms a major output of this subject. 
Dec 2018  
Assessment 
Specific  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to be 
Methods in 
assessment  weighting  assessed (Please tick as appropriate) 
Alignment with 
methods/tasks 
Intended 
a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i 
Learning 
Outcomes 
Continuous 
55%                   
Assessment 
Examination  45%                   
Total   100%   
Explanation of the appropriateness of the assessment methods in assessing the 
intended learning outcomes: 
Students need to complete a major game development project starting from concept 
development,  tools  and  techniques  analysis  and  final  implementation  in  an 
appropriate setting and platform. This project is used to develop students’ ability in 
game design and development.  
Students also need to complete a survey / evaluation of some popular computer 
games in the market based on the principles, concepts and techniques learnt in class. 
This will help student to apply all these learning in analyzing real products in the 
market. 
Students also need to get familiar with some successful / popular games by playing 
them  using  the  game  lab  facilities  so  as  to  understand  the  characteristics  and 
limitations as a game player and game designer of computer games. 
Student Study  Class contact: 
Effort Expected  
  Lecture  26 Hrs. 
  Tutorial/Lab  13 Hrs. 
Other student study effort: 
  Coursework and Project  80 Hrs. 
Total student study effort   119 Hrs. 
Reading List  Textbook: 
and References 
1.  Rarent, Rick, Computer Animation: Algorithms and Techniques, 2nd  Edition, 
2008. 
2.  Schell, Jesse, The Art of Game Design: A Book of Lenses, 2nd Edition, Kindle 
Edition, 2008. 
3.  Gregory, Jason, Game Engine Architecture, 3rd Edition, 2018. 
 
Dec 2018 