Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP3131 
Subject Title  Business and Information Systems Strategies 
Credit Value  3 
Level  3 
Pre-requisite /   
Co-requisite / 
Exclusion 
Objectives  The objectives of this subject are to: 
•  provide students with a general understanding of the strategic planning and use 
of information systems in managing modern enterprises; and 
•  allow students the opportunity to develop critical evaluation in the selection and 
appraisal of relevant approaches, methods and techniques that use information 
technologies to bring advantages to real-life business organizations. 
Intended  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Learning 
Outcomes  Professional/academic knowledge and skills 
 
(a)  understand  the  basic  business  and  information  systems  strategies  for 
 
organizational change; 
 
  (b)  relate  and  align  information  technologies  and  information  systems  with 
  business strategy; and 
 
  (c)  appreciate and evaluate existing and emergent information technologies on 
  their applicability to modern enterprises, and identify opportunities for IT-
  enabled organizational change. 
 
  Attributes for all-roundedness 
 
  (d)  improve presentation and communication skills (through cases discussion and 
  project presentation); and 
 
(e)  develop the ability to learn independently and to find/integrate information 
 
from different sources required in solving real-life problems. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Aug 2020  
Subject 
Topic 
Synopsis/ 
Indicative  1.   The role of IS/IT in organizations.  Escalating benefits of using IT; Changing 
Syllabus  roles of IS organization and staff. 
2.   Information  systems  strategies.  Definition  and  process  of  IS  strategies; 
Information systems management and IS strategies formulation. 
3.   Information  systems  planning.  Elements  and  process  of  IS  planning.  IS 
planning  techniques  including  competitive  force  model  and  value  chain 
analysis. 
4.   The  information  systems  strategy  –  business  strategy  relationship.  The 
strategic alignment model; Influential factors to the alignment of information 
systems and business strategy. 
5.   Information systems strategy and the organizational environment.  The two-
way relationship of information systems and organizations; Technical and 
behavioral  definitions  of  organizations;  Systems  development  and 
organizational  change;  reengineering;  risk  and  change  management. 
Information  systems  for  supporting  organizational  learning  such  as 
collaboration, virtual organization and knowledge management. 
 
Teaching/  Lectures provide students the main concepts of the subject topic, together with 
Learning  comprehensive examples for easy understanding. Students are required to actively 
Methodology  participate in the case discussion and Q&A exercises. 
Tutorials and lab sessions offer an opportunity to the students for practicing their 
business analysis, application, and (re)design techniques.  
Students will learn not only in the class but also through various coursework 
activities. 
 
Assessment 
Specific assessment  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to 
Methods in 
methods/tasks  weighting  be assessed (Please tick as 
Alignment with 
appropriate) 
Intended 
Learning 
a  b  c  d  e 
Outcomes 
Continuous Assessment  60%           
Examination  40%           
Total   100%   
Explanation of the appropriateness of the assessment methods in assessing the 
intended learning outcomes: 
The assessment items include written and oral assignments, projects, and tests. 
Assignments are designed to reinforce the concepts and methods learned in the class. 
Projects are used to develop students’ analytic and problem solving skills. The 
written part of the assignments and projects helps student develop their organization 
and documentation skills. The oral part of the coursework allows students to practice 
their presentation and communication skills. Tests give students opportunity to 
review and reflect on their learning.
 
Aug 2020 Student Study  Class contact: 
Effort Expected  
  Lecture  39 Hrs. 
  Tutorial/Lab  0 Hrs. 
Other student study effort: 
  Reading and Self-Learning  14 Hrs. 
  Coursework  55 Hrs. 
Total student study effort   108 Hrs. 
Reading List  Reference Books: 
and References 
1.  Laudon, Kenneth, Management Information Systems: Managing the Digital 
Firm, Global Edition, 16th Edition, Pearson, 2020.  
2.  Turban, Efraim et al, Electronic Commerce, 2018. 
3.  Zeng, Ming, Smart Business: What Alibaba's Success Reveals about the Future 
of Strategy, Harvard Business Review Press, 2018 
4.  Chishti, Susanne and Barberis, Janos, The Fintech Book, John Wiley & Sons 
2016 
5.  MIT Technology Review 
6.  The Computer Journal, British Computer Society 
7.  Harvard Business Review 
 
Aug 2020 