Subject Description Form 
Subject Code  COMP 3432 
Subject Title  Innovative Computing Paradigms 
Credit Value  3 
Level  3 
Pre-requisite/ Co- Pre-requisites: COMP 2011, COMP 2021 
requisite/ Exclusion 
Objectives  The objectives of this subject are to: 
1.  To introduce students to the principles of innovative computing 
paradigms. 
2.  To give students practice in developing applications for 
innovative computing paradigms. 
3.  To cultivate students’ problem-solving skills.  
 
Intended Learning  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Outcomes   
Professional/academic knowledge and skills 
(a) Understand the basic principles of innovative computing 
paradigms that provide solutions to enable human-centric 
interaction and integration to computation that is adaptive and 
responsive to contextual changes.  
(b) Understand the fundamental paradigm shift that has impacted 
various aspects of computing towards  architectural solutions 
that promote adaptable and coordinated computing;  
(c) Understand and appreciate the role of context-aware computing 
and the programming for the physical environment; 
(d) Understand the basic principles of contextual sensing, 
ubiquitous design, mobile data management and the important 
role that middleware plays in coordinated processing; 
(e) Understand and appreciate the different applications in 
different emerging computing paradigms 
 
Attributes for all-roundedness 
(f)  develop skills in problem solving using systematic approaches;  
(g) identify and develop problem solutions in a logical manner;  
(h) solve complex problems in groups and develop group work. 
 
Subject Synopsis/  1.  Linking the physical world to the digital domain;  
Indicative Syllabus  2.  Ubiquitous networking; backbone infrastructure support; local 
mobility interaction; micro and macro mobility. 
3.  Ubiquitous sensing paradigms; mapping sensing to event 
notifications 
4.  Emerging computing paradigms that integrate contextual 
adaptation to human-centric computation. 
5.  Pervasive and Ubiquitous Computing. Smart objects. 
Smart/context-aware environments.  
6.  Human-Centered Interfaces and service-oriented architecture. 
Multimodal and tangible input/output.  
7.  Mobile and Wearable Computing. Wireless infrastructures. Context-aware Computing. 
8.  Middleware for adaptive and reflective computing.   
 
Teaching/Learning  During the lectures, students will be taught the basic principles of 
Methodology  innovative computing paradigms. Whenever possible, to reinforce 
students understanding of the concepts taught, practical examples 
and study will be introduced. 
 
During tutorial, students will be required to solve problems and 
questions pertaining to various computing paradigms that promote 
human centric interaction and computation. Lab sessions will be 
setup to teach students to use software and tools related to materials 
taught in the class. 
 
In addition to quizzes and individual assignments to train students 
on their independent problem solving skills, group projects will be 
set to allow students to work in as a group.  
 
Assessment Methods in   
Alignment with Intended  Specific  % weighting  Intended subject learning 
Learning Outcomes  Assessment  outcomes to be assessed 
Methods/Tasks 
a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h 
Assignments,  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x 
55 
Tests & Projects 
Final Examination  45  x  x  x  x  x  x  x   
Total  100                 
 
Student study effort  Class Contact: 
expected  Lecture  39 hours 
Tutorial/Lab   0 hours 
Other student study effort: 
Assignments, Quizzes, Projects, Exams  66 hours 
Total student study effort  105 hours 
Reading list and  (1) Malcolm McCullough. Digital Ground: Architecture, Pervasive 
references  Computing, and Environmental Knowing. The MIT Press; New 
edition edition (October 1, 2005) 
(2) Adam Greenfield. Everyware: The Dawning Age of Ubiquitous 
Computing. New Riders Publishing; 1st edition (March 20, 
2006) 
(3) Dragan Stojanovic. Context-Aware Mobile and Ubiquitous 
Computing for Enhanced Usability: Adaptive Technologies 
and Applications; Information Science Reference (Mar 20, 
2009) 
(4) Stefan Poslad. Ubiquitous Computing: Smart Devices, 
Environments and Interactions; Wiley; 1 edition (May 19, 
2009) 
 