Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP4422 
Subject Title  Computer Graphics 
Credit Value  3 
Level  4 
Pre-requisite /  Pre-requisite: COMP2011 
Co-requisite / 
Exclusion 
Objectives  The objectives of this subject are to: 
  learn basic and fundamental computer graphics techniques; 
  learn 3D image synthesis techniques; and 
  understand 3D modeling, design and visualization. 
Intended  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Learning 
Outcomes  Professional/academic knowledge and skills 
(a)  gain proficiency in 3D computer graphics API programming; 
(b)  understand the interactive computer graphics architecture; 
(c)  possess  in-depth  knowledge  of  display  systems,  image  synthesis,  shape 
modeling, and interactive control of 3D computer graphics applications; and 
(d)  enlarge their perspective of modern computer system with modeling, analysis 
and interpretation of 2D and 3D visual information. 
Attributes for all-roundedness 
(e)  understand,  appreciate  and  follow  the  development  and  advancement  of 
computer  graphics  technologies,  including  advanced  technologies  for  3D 
modelling, high performance rendering (life-long learning). 
 
Subject 
Topic 
Synopsis/ 
Indicative  1.  Basic Introduction to Human Vision, Displays, Graphics Pipeline 
Syllabus 
2.  GPUs, CG Processing, Frame Buffers and APIs 
3.  2D Modeling, Primitives and Rasterization 
4.  Polygon Geometry 
5.  Geometric Transformations 
6.  Two-dimensional Viewing and Clipping 
7.  Three-dimensional Viewing and Projections 
8.  Three-dimensional Object Representations 
Dec 2018 9.  Visible Surface Detection 
10. Illumination Models 
11.  Shading Models 
12.  Color Models 
13. Hierarchical Modeling 
14. Three-dimensional Scene Rendering 
 
Laboratory Experiments: 
Laboratory  exercises  will  normally  be  conducted  using  the  currently  available 
computer graphics API such as OpenGL. The students will be exposed to basic 
frame-buffer  control,  pixel  processes,  rasterization,  2D  drawings,  3D 
transformations, projections, scene hierarchy, modeling objects, color and interactive 
animation. 
Case Study: 
If applicable, case studies may be conducted on modeling and design systems that 
are used in commercial applications.
 
Teaching/  The teaching methodology is based on these main activities: 
Learning 
Methodology  1.  Lecture delivery 
2.  Interactive exchange with students in class 
3.  Laboratory exercises consisting of hands-on programming exercises and tests 
4.  Tutorial sessions in and/or outside the lecture and laboratory sessions 
5.  Exposition and training sessions on a commercial grade studio package 
6.  Sessions on 3D artistic design and special effects 
7.  Office hours questions, answers and clarification of material 
8.  Discussion sessions with optional additional workshops, lectures and labs 
The learning methodology will be based on: 
1.  Lecture notes 
2.  Laboratory notes and programming exercises 
3.  Textbook material 
4.  Additional reference material 
5.  Web links to active tutorials and other presentation material 
Group interactions and supervised discussion sessions. 
Dec 2018  
Assessment 
Specific assessment  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to 
Methods in 
methods/tasks  weighting  be assessed (Please tick as 
Alignment with 
appropriate) 
Intended 
Learning 
a  b  c  d  e 
Outcomes 
Continuous Assessment  60%           
1. Assignments           
2. Lab Exercises  30%           
3. Project           
4. Mid-term  30%           
Examination  40%           
Total   100%   
The assignment weights will be effectively distributed amongst the intended subject 
learning outcomes to nurture creative thinking, independence, teamwork, technical 
skills  and  a  global  perspective  towards  the  technological  base  of  this  subject. 
Specifically, the assignments and the lab exercises are selected to develop the 
technical  skills  and  knowledge  to  solve  problems  in  computing  and  software 
development as well as to realize effective solutions, understand, evaluate and 
develop a critical perspective in the development of both small and large systems and 
integration  of  systems.  Critical  thinking,  effective  communication  and  a 
demonstrable global outlook will be incorporated at every level of exercises and mid-
term examinations. The final examination accounts for a global and comprehensive 
understanding of the entire subject material and serves as the final checkpoint for the 
learning outcomes against technical skills and critical problem solving with respect 
to all components of computer graphics and 3D modeling.
 
Student Study  Class contact: 
Effort Expected  
  Lecture  26 Hrs. 
  Tutorial/Laboratory  13 Hrs. 
Other student study effort: 
  Assignments  24 Hrs. 
  Course Work: Reading, Discussions  42 Hrs. 
Total student study effort   105 Hrs. 
Reading List  Textbook: 
and References 
1.  Marschner, Steve and Shirley, Peter, Fundamentals of Computer Graphics, 4th 
Edition, CRC Press, 2016. 
Reference Books: 
Dec 2018 1.  Cantor, Diego and Jones, Brandon, WebGL Beginner’s Guide, 1st Edition, 
PACKT Pub, 2012. 
2.  Blender Reference Manual, 
https://docs.blender.org/manual/en/latest/index.html 
3.  Hearn,  D. and  Baker,  M.,  Computer Graphics with OpenGL, 4th Edition, 
Prentice-Hall, 2011. 
4.  Hill, F.S. Jr., Computer Graphics Using Open GL, 2nd Edition, Prentice Hall, 
2001. 
 
Dec 2018 