Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP2322 
Subject Title  Computer Networking 
Credit Value  3 
Level  2 
Pre-requisite /  Pre-requisite: COMP1011 
Co-requisite / 
Exclusion 
Objectives  The key objective of this subject is to: 
  acquire  a  foundational  understanding  of  computer  communications 
technologies.  Emphasis  will  be  on  the  link  layer  and  above.  Networking 
concepts will be illustrated using the TCP/IP and ATM networks. 
Intended  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Learning 
Outcomes  Professional/academic knowledge and skills 
(a)  acquire  a  good  knowledge  of  the  computer  network,  its  architecture  and 
operation;  
(b)  understand and apply the principles and practices of computer networks; and 
(c)  realize network communication skills through programming. 
Attributes for all-roundedness 
(d)  follow trends of computer networks; and 
(e)  build up on team work, presentation and technical writing skills. 
 
Subject 
Topic 
Synopsis/ 
Indicative  1.  Fundamentals 
Syllabus 
Networking  basics;  layering  concept;  protocols;  data  encapsulation;  OSI 
reference model; TCP/IP reference model; performance evaluation. 
2.  Data Link and MAC Sublayer 
Data link layer basics; framing; error detection; automatic repeat request 
protocols; LAN; link layer and MAC protocols. 
3.  Network Layer 
Network  layer  basics;  connection-oriented  and  connectionless  networks; 
routing/forwarding  mechanisms;  distance  vector  and  link  state  routing 
algorithms; IP basics; IP addressing and subnets; address resolution protocol. 
Dec 2018 4.  Transport Layer 
User Datagram Protocol (UDP); Transmission Control Protocol (TCP). 
5.  Application Layer 
Networking applications. 
Laboratory Experiment: 
Laboratory exercises on networking such as socket programming and IP-based 
applications. 
Case Study: 
Networking technologies and applications.
 
Teaching/  Teaching is mainly conducted through lectures. 
Learning 
Methodology  Learning is supplemented by exercises in labs/tutorials.  
Students  are  assessed  through  assignments,  a  project,  a  mid-term  test  and  an 
examination. 
 
Assessment 
Specific assessment  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to 
Methods in 
methods/tasks  weighting  be assessed (Please tick as 
Alignment with 
appropriate) 
Intended 
Learning 
a  b  c  d  e 
Outcomes 
Continuous Assessment           
1. Assignments           
55% 
2. Project           
3. Mid-Term           
Examination  45%           
Total   100%   
Explanation of the appropriateness of the assessment methods in assessing the 
intended learning outcomes: 
The project is used to assess all learning outcomes.  
The assignments and mid-term test are used as continuous assessment methods to 
assess students’ knowledge and understanding about the subject. 
Finally, students are assessed by a formal examination.
 
Student Study  Class contact: 
Effort Expected  
  Lecture  39 Hrs. 
Dec 2018   Tutorial/Lab  13 Hrs. 
Other student study effort: 
  Self-study  53 Hrs. 
Total student study effort   105 Hrs. 
Reading List  Textbook: 
and References 
1.  Peterson, L. and Davie, B., Computer Networks: A Systems Approach, 4th 
Edition, Morgan Kaufmann, 2007. 
Reference Books: 
1.  Stevens, W. R., TCP/IP Illustrated Volume I, The Protocols, Addison Wesley, 
1994.  
2.  Tanenbaum, A. S., Computer Networks, 5th Edition, Prentice Hall, 2010.   
3.  Comer, D. E., Internetworking with TCP/IP: Volume I - Principles, Protocols, 
and Architecture, 5th Edition, Prentice Hall, 2006.  
4.  Keshav,  S.,  An  Engineering  Approach  to  Computer  Networking:  ATM 
Networks, the Internet, and the Telephone Network, Addison Wesley Longman, 
1997.  
5.  Stallings, W., High-speed Networks and Internets: Performance and Quality of 
Service, 2nd Edition, Prentice Hall, 2002.  
6.  Stallings, W., Network and Internetwork Security: Principles and Practice, 
IEEE Press, 1995. 
7.  Stevens,  W.  R.,  Unix  Network  Programming,  Volume  1:  The  Sockets 
Networking API, 3rd Edition, Addison-Wesley Professional, 2003.   
 
Dec 2018 