Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP3423 
Subject Title  Human Computer Interaction 
Credit Value  3 
Level  3 
Pre-requisite /  Pre-requisite: COMP1011 
Co-requisite / 
Exclusion  Exclusion: COMP2222 
Objectives  The objectives of this subject are to: 
•  provide students with a broad view of both theoretical and practical issues in 
human factors for design of human-computer interfaces; 
•  equip students with knowledge and understanding of the nature of human 
computer interactions, human characteristics, computer system and interface 
architecture; 
•  equip students with sound skills in design and evaluation of user interfaces; 
•  equip students with computing techniques and paradigms in interface and 
interaction development; and 
•  provide  students  with  a  broad  view  of  the  state  of  interactive  software 
development in today’s industry. 
Intended  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Learning 
Outcomes  Professional/academic knowledge and skills 
(a)  Understand and appreciate the human factors and the theoretical issues involved 
in human-computer interaction design; 
(b)  Apply the theoretical design principles to the design and evaluation of user 
interfaces; 
(c)  Collect user requirements, design a human-computer interface according to 
these requirements, and evaluate the design; and 
(d)  Possess the ability to design and develop computer systems for different kinds 
of human interaction. 
Attributes for all-roundedness 
(e)  Solve problems by using systematic approaches;  
(f)  Solve complex problems in groups; and 
(g)  Write technical reports and present the findings. 
Dec 2018  
Subject 
Topic 
Synopsis/ 
Indicative  1.  Nature of Human Computer Interaction (HCI) 
Syllabus 
Definitions and importance of HCI; historical context of HCI; roles various 
disciplines play within HCI.  
2.  Human Characteristics  
Perception and representation; models and limits of human memory; mental 
models; use of metaphors; user aspects of language, social and organizational 
aspects; input and output devices: performance characteristics (human and 
system); speech input and output. 
3.  Formal and Conceptual Models  
Task  analysis  and  predictive  modeling;  dialogue  interaction:  types  and 
techniques; multimedia and non-graphical dialogues; response time; statistical 
models for describing interaction processes. 
4.  Design Guidelines and Methods  
User-centered  design  and  task  analysis;  structural  HCI  design;  design 
rationale; standards and metrics; documentation and on-line information. 
5.  Development and Applications 
Event-driven paradigms, MVC Model, Design rationale; Iterative design and 
prototyping; WIMP and post-WIMP user interfaces; Mobile device platforms; 
web/mobile accessibility 
6.  Evaluation 
Role of evaluation; evaluation techniques; experiments and benchmarking. 
 
Teaching/  Lectures, Tutorials and Labs 
Learning 
Methodology  The subject material will be delivered through lectures, tutorials and labs. Lectures 
will provide the main body of the subject materials. Where possible, guest lectures 
and/or case studies will be used to give the subject material more relevancy to real-
world scenarios. 
Tutorials and labs will provide students with more in-depth opportunities to explore 
the lecture materials and practice the lecture concepts. Where possible, a hands-on, 
interactive approach will be used. 
Projects and Assignments 
Projects  and  assignments  will  provide  students  with  in-depth  opportunities  to 
practice the lecture concepts, as well as to assess their ability to apply these concepts 
in practical scenarios. 
Examinations and Tests 
Examinations and tests will assess students on their grasp of subject material. 
Dec 2018  
Assessment 
Specific assessment  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to be 
Methods in 
methods/tasks  weighting  assessed (Please tick as appropriate) 
Alignment with 
Intended 
a  b  c  d  e  f  g 
Learning 
Outcomes 
Continuous               
Assessment 
60% 
1. Projects, 
Assignments and  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓ 
Tests 
Final Examination  40%  ✓  ✓    ✓  ✓     
Total   100%   
The course will be accessed by assignments, projects, and tests. 
Assignments are designed to reinforce the concepts and methods learned in the class. 
Projects are used to develop students’ analytic and problem solving skills. The 
written part of the assignments and projects helps student develop their organization 
and documentation skills. The oral part of the coursework allows students to present 
their ideas and communicate effectively to the audience. Tests are used to assess 
independent problem solving and critical thinking skills.
 
Student Study  Class contact: 
Effort Expected  
▪  Lecture, Tutorials, Workshops and Labs  39 Hrs. 
Other student study effort: 
▪  Assignments, Coursework, Reading, Exam  66 Hrs. 
Total student study effort   105 Hrs. 
Reading List  Textbook: 
and References 
1.  Shneiderman, B. and Plaisant, C., Designing the User Interface: Strategies for 
Effective Human-Computer Interaction, 5th Edition, Addison Wesley, 2010. 
Reference Books: 
1.  Dix, J. Finlay, Abowd, G., and Beale, R., Human-Computer Interaction, 3rd 
Edition, Prentice Hall, 2004. 
2.  Andleigh, P.K. and Thakrar, K., Multimedia Systems Design, Prentice Hall, 
1996. 
3.  Morris, M.E.S. and Hinrichs, R.J., Web Page Design: A Different Multimedia, 
Prentice Hall, 1996. 
 
Dec 2018 