 
Subject Description Form  
 
Subject Code  COMP3911 
Subject Title  Service-Learning and Civic Engagement in the Information Age  
Credit Value  3 
Level  3  
Pre-requisite/ Co- Nil 
requisite/ Exclusion 
Objectives  The objectives of this subject are to: 
1.  Introduce the concept and practice of learning through 
community service to our students 
2.  Acquaint students with significant issues of social needs related 
to the information age, such as the concept of the information 
divide 
3.  Facilitate computing students to apply their computing and 
technology skills to address societal needs 
4.  Enhance students’ generic competencies of innovative problem 
solving, communication and teamwork  
5.  Nurture students’ sense of social awareness, empathy, 
responsibility and engagement. 
 
Intended Learning  Upon completion of subject, students will be able to: 
Outcomes 
a.  Articulate the role of computing technology in social contexts 
and linkage to the needs of the underprivileged  
b.  Demonstrate awareness of the cause, impact and potential 
solutions of the information and digital divide 
c.  Analyze complex issues in the service setting and design, 
implement and apply appropriate technological solutions to meet 
the needs of the target recipients  
d.  Work effectively in teams to solve problems encountered in 
planning and delivering the service 
e.  Communicate effectively with clients, partners and/or other 
stakeholders 
f.  Demonstrate empathy for people in need and a sense of civic 
responsibility, especially pertaining to the use, deployment and 
impact of technology 
g.  Reflect on their role and responsibilities, both as a Computing 
professional and as a responsible citizen.  
Subject Synopsis/  1.  Concept and Practice of Service-Learning: 
Indicative Syllabus 
•  Principles, concepts and myths of service-learning  
  1 •  Benefits of service-learning to students and the community 
•  Ethical issues in service-learning  
•  Proper attitudes and behaviours in service delivery  
•  Reflection as a tool for learning  
2.  Discipline-specific Concepts, Issues and Skills 
•  The digital divide.  Cause and impact of the digital divide on 
society: economical, cultural, political. Possible global and/or 
local solutions to the digital divide.      
•  Potential ethical, environmental and societal impacts of 
technology. Possible harm created by technology. Ethical and 
moral concerns raised by technology. Proper use of technology. 
Appropriate and sustainable technology.  
•  Possible solutions to societal needs through technology. 
Potential factors impacting the effective use of technology by 
underprivileged communities. Usability, interaction and 
accessible technology. 
3.  Project-Specific Concepts, Issues and Skills 
•  Understanding the background and needs of the identified target 
group in the community  
•  Health, safety, privacy, moral and ethical concerns and other 
issues relevant to the service project and beneficiaries 
•  Project planning and development skills (e.g. human psychology 
and interaction, game programming, hardware development, 
cost, manpower and other resource estimation, budgeting, etc.) 
relevant to the projects. 
Teaching/Learning  1.  e-Learning Module 
Methodology 
The e-learning module is developed and delivered by the Service-
Learning and Leadership Office at PolyU, consisting of readings, 
exercises and assessments that are designed to introduce students to the 
basic concept and practice of service-learning. 
Students are required to successfully complete the e-learning module 
within the first four weeks of the semester in which they are taking the 
subject.  
 
2.  Discipline-Specific Lectures, Tutorials, Seminars and/or 
Workshops 
These activities will cover computing-related topics such as the 
information and digital divide and its impact, appropriate technology, 
and/or information and digital ethics. They will also cover specific 
computing skills that may be needed by the students to carry out their 
service-learning projects. There will be opportunities for small group 
  2 discussions, assignments, and presentations – to explore these issues in 
greater depth.  
 
3.  Project-Specific Seminars, Tutorials and/or Workshops  
The project-specific seminars, tutorials and/or workshops are designed 
to: (a) develop students’ understanding of the targeted clients/ 
underprivileged community, as well as other issues relating to the 
service-learning project, (b) provide training for students in generic 
skills in planning and delivering the service project. Guest experts and 
speakers will be invited to contribute to some of these sessions as 
appropriate. Where possible, a hands-on interactive format will be used.  
 
Students are required to attend all of the discipline-specific and project-
specific lectures, seminars and workshops and successfully complete all 
of the required assignments/learning tasks prior to participation in the 
service-learning project. 
 
4.  Service-Learning Project 
The service-learning projects are designed to develop students’ generic 
competencies of innovative problem-solving, teamwork and 
communication, and enhance students’ sense of social awareness, 
responsibilities and engagement.   
Projects may be either local or offshore. The projects will emphasize 
hands-on tasks. They will involve team as well as individual work. 
Students will be encouraged to research on specific problems.  They will 
also be challenged to design and implement solutions, applying their 
knowledge in information technology to solving social problems.   
 
Examples of projects include: 
•  STEM DAY Projects. In these projects, students will plan, 
coordinate, prepare the STEM materials and provide a STEM Day 
experience to underprivileged communities, such as disabled 
children, the elderly, or at-risk youths. 
•  Development and Infrastructure Projects. In these projects, students 
will design and develop an IT solution for an underprivileged 
community or an NGO, such as designing VR and AR games to 
facilitate physical and mental therapy for children with severe 
disabilities or to facilitate mental therapy for elders with dementia. 
The projects will involve around 40 hours of frontline service. Some 
projects (such as some particularly challenging or off-shore projects) 
may necessitate specific selection requirements on participating students. 
The teaching team will make the final decisions on project allocation, 
but efforts will be made to accommodate student preferences on their 
choice of project. For overseas projects, students may also be asked to 
shoulder a portion of their incurred costs. 
  3 Overseas projects will involve approximately one week of intensive 
frontline service, while local projects may be conducted during evenings 
and weekends.  
5.  Review Sessions, Reflective Journals and Report  
Students will be required to write reflective journals and reports both 
during and after the service-learning project to demonstrate their ability 
to: (a) link their service-learning experiences with the academic 
focus/discipline-specific content of the subject, (b) reflect on their 
service-learning experience to identify their learning gains as well as 
areas for future improvements, (c) reflect on their roles and social 
responsibilities. Class presentations of their reflections and activities will 
also be required. 
To guide students in using reflection as a tool for learning, and to assess 
their ability in achieving the above learning objectives, reflection and 
review sessions will also be held both during and after the service-
learning project. 
 
Assessment Methods   
in Alignment with 
Intended Learning  Intended subject learning 
Outcomes  Specific assessment  %  outcomes to be assessed 
methods/ tasks  weighting 
a  b  c  d  e  f  g 
e-Learning Module 
Pass/fail*               ✓ 
(individual) 
Attitude, discipline and 
contribution during  10%      ✓  ✓       
preparation (individual) 
Plans/proposals for 
20%    ✓  ✓  ✓       
service (group) 
Performance in   
rendering service  40%      ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓ 
(individual & group) 
Reflective journal/report 
30%  ✓  ✓  ✓      ✓  ✓ 
(individual) 
Total  100%               
 
*Failure to complete before the deadline will incur a grade penalty 
 
  4 Explanation of the appropriateness of the assessment methods in 
assessing the intended learning outcomes: 
The e-Learning Module will include assignments and learning tasks that 
are designed to introduce the concept and practice of service-learning to 
students, and to help them to begin to reflect on their role and 
responsibility as a computing professional and citizen (ILO g). 
Students will be asked to write proposals or plans for the service projects 
as preparation for service. These proposals will demonstrate their 
awareness of potential solutions, as well as their ability to apply 
classroom-learned skills to deal with complex issues and problems in the 
service settings (ILO b and c), and their ability to function effectively as 
a team to solve complex problems (ILO d). 
The students’ attitude, discipline and contribution during the preparation 
will demonstrate their ability to work effectively in teams (ILO d), as 
well as their ability to implement and apply technology to meet the 
needs of their target recipients (ILO c). 
The students’ attitude and performance in the rendering of service, their 
degree of engagement with the service recipients, their collaboration 
with other students, and interactions with the service recipients and/or 
collaborating NGOs are obviously indicators of their ability to 
communicate effectively with clients and stakeholders (ILO e), their 
sense of civic responsibility, professional ethics and their empathy for 
people in need (ILO f), and their ability to work collaboratively to apply 
their knowledge and skills to deal with real problems in the service 
setting (ILO c and d). 
Students’ reflective journals and report will testify to the students’ 
reflection on their learning experience, and the breadth and depth of their 
learning. This assesses their ability to link service-learning and the 
academic content of the subject (ILO a), their awareness of the impact of 
and solutions to the digital divide (ILO b), their ability to apply their 
knowledge to the service project (ILO c), their empathy for the less 
fortunate people in the society (ILO f), and their ability to reflect on their 
role and responsibilities in the society (ILO g). 
 
The class discussions and assignments are designed to help the students 
to learn and to gage the students’ understanding of the issues discussed.  
The students will be asked to write proposals for the projects, as 
preparation for service as well as assessment of their understanding of 
social needs.  
 
The students’ attitude in the rendering of service, their degree of 
engagement with service recipients, their collaboration with other 
students, and relationship with collaborating NGOs are obviously 
indicators of their sense of civic responsibility.  
 
  5 Students’ reflective journals on their experience, and reflective term 
reports testify to the students’ reflection on their learning experience, 
and the breadth and depth of their learning.  
 
sStudent study effort  E-Learning Module  10 hours 
expected 
Class Contact:   
•  Discipline-related Lectures, Tutorials,  12 hours 
Seminars and/or Workshops 
•  Project-Specific Seminars, Tutorials and/or  13 hours 
Workshops 
•  Reflection and review tutorials and sessions  10 hours 
Other student study effort:   
Planning and preparation of project  25 hours 
Rendering of service  40 hours 
Reflection and review  25 hours 
Total student study effort  135 hours 
 
Reading list and  1.  Mark Warschauer, Technology and Social Inclusion – 
references  Rethinking the Digital Divide, The MIT Press, 2003.  
2.  Barbara Jacoby and Associates, Civic Engagement in Higher 
Education, Jossey-Bass, 2009. 
3.  Cathryn Berger Kaye, The Complete Guide to Service Learning, 
Free Spirit Publishing, 2004. 
4.  Anne Colby, Thomas Ehrich, Elizabeth Beaumont, Jason 
Stephens, Educating Citizens – Preparing America’s 
Undergraduates for Lives of Moral and Civic Responsibility, 
Jossey-Bass, 2003. 
5.  Christine M. Cress, Peter J. Collier, Vicki L. Reitenauer and 
Associates, Learning Through Serving – A Student Guidebook 
for Service-Learning Across the Disciplines, Sterling, Virginia, 
2005. 
6.  Dan Butin, Service-Learning in Theory and Practice – The 
Future of Community Engagement in Higher Education, 
Palgrave Macmillan, 2010.  
 
  6 