Subject Description Form 
 
 
Subject Code  COMP1B02 
Subject Title  Friends, Followers and Circles: Connections in a Socially-Computed World 
Credit Value  3 
Level  1 
Medium of  English 
Instruction 
Pre-requisite and/or  Pre-requisites: Nil 
Exclusion(s)   
Exclusion: COMP 1901 Seminars and Topics in Information Technology 
 
Objectives  Specific objectives of the subject: 
 
 
This subject is specifically targeted at students not in the Computing discipline. They 
will learn of the basic concepts and essential elements of social computing behind the 
social network for general audience; the focus is not simply on what the social 
network is, but also on how it is formed and evolved, with some of the supporting 
technologies underneath. The objectives are (1) to introduce non major students to the 
core concepts of social computing and to arouse their interests, (2) to give them an 
idea of how various technologies work together to create the fantastic virtual world, 
(3) to relate the social networking concepts to real-life applications under a broad 
range of platforms, (4) to teach the student of the theories behind the modeling and 
analysis of social networks and (5) to provoke students into analyzing the short-term 
impacts and projecting long-term impacts of social computing in the context of 
technological advances and society. 
 
Students are not expected to have any background in Computing and Information 
Technology. The subject will cover both social and technological aspects underlying 
social computing, including internet platforms, web servers, content management, user 
management, social linkage: formation and implication, pervasive access via mobile 
devices, underlying social computing policies and mechanisms. Students will explore 
contemporary social networks, media and so on, learning through group projects, 
active discussion and individual blogging on BlackBoard etc. 
 
Students are expected to apply the fundamental knowledge acquired during lectures on 
to specific domains of social networking for proper analysis. This is achieved upon 
case-studying contemporary social networks and probably participating in some of 
them. They will report the results as a group project and present to the benefits of 
other students. An individual term paper on a related topic will provide a student with 
the chance to work on his/her own and demonstrate one’s actual ability. 
 
Intended Learning  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Outcomes  a.  Understand the basic concepts of social networks and the underlying social 
computing; 
  b.  Possess the ability to appreciate the design and operation of different social 
networks; 
c.  Possess the ability to understand the interactions between social networking 
media, contents, and usage platforms; and  
d.  Possess the ability to predict changes in social computing with respect to 
technological advances.  
 
Relationship  between  the  learning  outcomes  with  the  following  three  essential 
Last update in July 2014 features: Literacy, Higher order thinking, and Life-long learning 
 
Literacy: 
Learning outcomes (a), (b) and (c) are designed to teach and to train students’ 
technological literacy, in technical contents like servers and platforms, and less 
technical contents like relationships between users and mutual inference. Students will 
perform blogging, browse through contemporary social networks and use them. The 
knowledge level will stay beyond simply knowing, but also understanding. 
 
Higher-Order Thinking: 
Learning outcomes (b), (c) and (d) are designed to teach and to train students’ higher-
order thinking in appreciating social networks and the technology underneath. The 
interactions of various components require students to think critically, to connect and 
even to create knowledge with respect to different computational platforms. The 
connectivity of the social network can reveal interesting information and generalized 
into knowledge that are extractable by various computation techniques. Students 
would be able to apply towards other applications in daily life and propose new ones. 
 
Life-Long Learning: 
Learning outcomes (c) and (d) are designed to train students and provide them with 
the foundations for independent life-long learning. Through the linkage created in the 
social network and the content, the subject aims to motivate students to pursue 
continuous learning by making relevant the subject matter to daily life. Students are 
encouraged to follow on the technological and social development of social network 
and social computing in the new decade. 
 
Subject Synopsis/  1.  Social networks 
Indicative Syllabus   Overview; nodes, links and distances; social network connections; sixth degree of 
separation; hubs and authorities; friends and followers; crowds, communities and 
circles; social network services. 
 
2.  Information in social network 
Media content; blogging; tagging; node attributes; user profiles; “like”ness and 
rating; information aggregation; wisdom of crowds; crowd-sourcing; 
recommendation; collaborative filtering. 
 
3.  Contemporary social network-like platforms 
Facebook; Twitter; Google+; MySpace; Flickr; LinkedIn; MSN; QQ; Wikipedia; 
Kiva; OpenRice. 
 
4.  Technological support 
Internet and web; web servers and clients; Android and iOS platforms. 
 
5.  Computational aspects of social networks 
Social network modeling and analysis; visualization; information extraction; 
clustering and data mining. 
 
6.  Selected social network topics 
Sample topics include social presence, social games, creditability, free-rider and 
incentive schemes, addiction, psychological impact, social impact, ethics, privacy 
threats, information leakage, use of social networks for marketing, human search 
engines, connecting from virtual world to real world, gold farming in online 
games. 
 
Teaching/Learning  The  course  materials  are  delivered  mainly  through  a  combination  of  lectures, 
Methodology  seminars,  workshops  and  tutorials.  Students  acquire  the  fundamental  knowledge 
through  lectures  and  seminars.  Students  will  work  together  during  tutorials  and 
Last update in July 2014   workshops, facilitated by the teaching staffs, for various case studies and for group 
project to reinforce their knowledge acquired during lectures. Students should perform 
active blogging and study on the social media, with BlackBoard being the first “mini-
social network”. Students will demonstrate their knowledge acquired through the term 
paper and a few quizzes, let alone the group project. 
Assessment   
Methods in  Specific assessment  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to 
Alignment with  methods/tasks   weighting  be assessed (Please tick as appropriate) 
Intended Learning 
a  b  c  d 
Outcomes 
  1. Class attendance,  20 
X  X  X  X 
discussion and blogging 
2. Project  30  X  X  X  X 
3. Term paper  25  X  X  X  X 
4. Quizzes  25  X  X  X   
Total   100 %   
 
Student Study 
Class contact:   
Effort Expected  
  (cid:1)  Lectures / Seminars  26 Hrs. 
(cid:1)  Tutorials / Workshops  13 Hrs. 
Other student study effort:   
(cid:1)  Self study   24 Hrs. 
(cid:1)  Term project and term paper  42 Hrs. 
Total student study effort   105 Hrs. 
Reading List and   
Reference  1.  M.O. Jackson. Social and Economic (cid:12)etworks. Princeton University Press, 
2010. 
2.  N.A. Christakis, J.H. Fowler. Connected: The Surprising Power of Our Social 
(cid:12)etworks and How They Shape Our Lives - How Your Friends’ Friends’ 
Friends Affect Everything You Feel, Think, and Do. Little, Brown & 
Company, 2009. 
3.  L.C. Hillstrom. Online Social (cid:12)etworks. Lucent Books, 2010. 
4.  M.A. Russell. Mining the Social Web: Analyzing Data from Facebook, 
Twitter, LinkedIn, and Other Social Media Sites. O'Reilly Media, 2011. 
5.  B. Furht. Handbook of Social (cid:12)etwork Technologies and Applications. 
Springer, 2010. 
6.  D.J. Watts. Six Degrees: The Science of a Connected Age. W.W. Norton & 
Company, 2003. 
 
 
Remark: This subject fulfils CAR (COG) requirement. 
Last update in July 2014 