Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP2021 
Subject Title  Object-oriented Programming 
Credit Value  3 
Level  2 
Pre-requisite /  Pre-requisite: COMP1011 
Co-requisite / 
Exclusion 
Objectives  The objectives of this subject are to: 
  introduce students the basic elements of object-oriented programming; 
  teach students how to program computer systems using an object-oriented 
programming language; and 
  familiarize students the tools that streamline object-oriented development. 
Intended  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Learning 
Outcomes  Professional/academic knowledge and skills 
(a)  Use an object-oriented programming language to solve computer problems; and 
(b)  Use an object-oriented programming language to build computer systems. 
Attributes for all-roundedness 
(c)  build computer systems in groups and develop group work; and 
(d)  cooperate with team members in problem solving. 
 
Subject 
Topic 
Synopsis/ 
Indicative  1.  Object-based programming. Concept of objects and classes. Correspondence 
Syllabus  between software objects and real-world objects. Object life cycle. 
2.  “Has-a” relationships and encapsulation. Data hiding and protection. 
3.  Object-oriented  programming.  Concept  of  class  hierarchies.  “Is-a” 
relationships and inheritance. Overriding of methods. 
Polymorphism. Run-time binding. Abstract classes and methods. 
4.  Multiple inheritance/Interfaces 
5.  Exception handling. 
6.  Generic programming. 
7.  Concurrency. 
8.  Use of UML to model OO projects. 
 
Dec 2018 Teaching/  This subject emphasizes both the conceptual elements in computer programming and 
Learning  practical experiences. A high- level, object-oriented programming language, such as 
Methodology  C++ or Java, will be used for illustration purposes.  
The lectures will be used to deliver course material that will be practiced/reinforced 
during the tutorials/labs.  Individual/Group projects will be given to give students 
hand-on development experience. 
 
Assessment 
Specific assessment  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to 
Methods in 
methods/tasks  weighting  be assessed (Please tick as 
Alignment with 
appropriate) 
Intended 
Learning 
a  b  c  d   
Outcomes 
Continuous Assessment           
60% 
1. Assignments, Quizzes &           
Projects 
Final Examination  40%           
Total   100%   
A pass in both the continuous assessment and final examination portions are required 
to pass this subject.
 
Student Study  Class contact: 
Effort Expected  
  Lecture  39 Hrs. 
  Tutorial/Lab  13 Hrs. 
Other student study effort: 
  Assignments, Quizzes, Projects, Exam  68 Hrs. 
Total student study effort   120 Hrs. 
Reading List  Reference Books: 
and References 
1.  Horstmann, Cay S., Core Java Volume I – Fundamentals, 10th Edition, Prentice 
Hall, 2016. 
2.  Bates, Bert and Sierra, Kathy, Head First Java, 2nd Edition, O’Reilly Media, 
2005. 
3.  Bloch, Joshua, Effective Java, 2nd Edition, Addison-Wesley, 2008. 
4.  Larman,  Craig,  Applying  UML  and  Patterns:  An  Introduction  to  Object-
Oriented Analysis and Design and Iterative Development, 3rd Edition, Prentice 
Hall, 2004. 
 
Dec 2018 