Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP4423 
Subject Title  Computer Vision 
Credit Value  3 
Level  4 
Pre-requisite /  Pre-requisite: COMP2011 or   
Co-requisite / 
Exclusion  EIE2106 (Signals and Systems) for EIE students 
Objectives  This course is designed for the students interested in learning fundamental principles 
and important applications of computer vision using digital imaging. These images 
can be acquired using digital cameras in smartphones, infrared cameras, radars, or 
specialized sensors such as those employed for the medical imaging. This course will 
introduce a number of fundamental concepts in computer vision. During this course, 
the  students  will  gain  hands-on  experience  on  a  number  of  computer  vision 
algorithms for the real-world applications. 
Intended  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Learning 
Outcomes  (a)  understand  image  sensing,  pixel  arrays  and  2D/3D  digital  image 
representations; 
(b)  perform  basic  image  processing  operations  for  image  enhancement  and 
analysis; 
(c)  apply computer vision algorithms for object detection, feature extraction and 
3D reconstruction; 
(d)  apply computer vision and image processing methods for real-world problems; 
and 
(e)  learn applications of deep learning in computer vision. 
Subject  This course introduces the principles, mathematical models and applications of 
Synopsis/  computer vision.  The major topics to be covered in this course include: image 
Indicative  processing operations, imaging models, feature extraction techniques, stereo vision 
Syllabus  and 3D reconstruction techniques. The students will learn basic concepts of computer 
vision as well as avail hands on experience in solving real world vision problems.
 
Topic 
1.  Introduction to Computer Vision 
Introduction to Human Visual System, Image Formation and Digital Image 
Representations, Camera Model and Geometry 
2.  Image Processing Operations 
Image Enhancement, Image Sampling and Rotation, Image Filtering, Edge 
Detection, Morphological Operations 
Dec 2018 3.  Feature Extraction 
Designing  Image  Descriptors,  Feature  Descriptors,  Object  Detection  and 
Recognition 
4.  3D Image Representation and Reconstruction 
Common 3D Image Representation Formats, Stereo Vision, Pattern Lighting, 
Ultrasound Imaging and Photometric Stereo-based 3D imaging Systems 
5.  Deep Neural Networks 
Perceptron,  Neural  Network,  Perceptron  Training,  Gradient  Descent, 
Backpropagation,  Convolutional  Neural  Networks  and  Deep  Learning 
Architectures for Computer Vision 
 
Teaching/  Lectures:  The  lectures  will  focus  on  the  introduction  of  computer  vision  and 
Learning  fundamental  image  processing  operations.  The  lectures  will  include  feature 
Methodology  extraction, image enhancement, 3D reconstruction and object recognition principles 
for real-world applications. 
Tutorials:  Students  will  work  on  different  tutorial  problems  to  gain  hands-on 
experience with the application of computer vision algorithms. Each of the weekly 
tutorials are designed to focus on specific image(s) analysis problems and students 
will be invited to develop their own solutions for the given problem.   
Assignments: The students will implement specific computer vision algorithms and 
develop solutions for the real world problems. The students will also analyze the 
performance and learn to justify their solutions for the given real-world problems. 
Project: The students will design and develop appropriate computer vision-based 
solution for a real-world application. The students will incorporate image processing 
principles that they have learnt from this course and learn to develop expected or 
new solution for the given problem. 
 
Assessment 
Specific assessment  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to 
Methods in 
methods/tasks  weighting  be assessed (Please tick as 
Alignment with 
appropriate) 
Intended 
Learning 
a  b  c  d  e 
Outcomes 
Continuous Assessment  55%           
1. Assignment I  15%           
2. Assignment II  15%           
3. Project  25%           
Examination  45%           
Total   100%   
Explanation of the appropriateness of the assessment methods in assessing the 
intended learning outcomes: 
Dec 2018 Assignments; The assignments are designed to ascertain the effectiveness of selected 
computer  vision  algorithms  and  techniques.  These  assignments  require 
implementation of algorithms and/or analyze the performance. 
Project: The project will help to ascertain the ability of students in designing, 
selecting and implementing appropriate computer vision algorithms for real world 
applications. The students can be in a group of 2-3 students for any specific project.  
Examination:  The  examination  component  will  help  to  ascertain  the  students 
capability to understand computer vision algorithms, apply them with appropriate 
modifications  for  a  given  problem  and  ascertain  the  performance  from  the 
applications of basic image processing operations.
 
Student Study  Class contact: 
Effort Expected  
  Lecture  26 Hrs. 
  Tutorial/Lab  13 Hrs. 
Other student study effort: 
  Regular Reading and Assignment Effort  80 Hrs. 
Total student study effort   119 Hrs. 
Reading List  Reference Books: 
and References 
1.  Forsyth, David A. and Ponce, Jean, Computer Vision: A Modern Approach, 2nd 
Edition, Pearson, 2019. 
2.  Szeliski, Richard, Computer Vision: Algorithms and Applications, Springer, 
2011. 
3.  Gonzalez, Rafael and Woods, Richard, Digital Image Processing, 4th Edition, 
2018. 
 
Dec 2018 