Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP4125 
Subject Title  Operations Research and Logistics Management 
Credit Value  3 
Level  4 
Pre-requisite /  Pre-requisite: COMP1011, COMP2011 
Co-requisite / 
Exclusion 
Objectives  The objectives of this subject are to: 
  provide students an overview of the logistics industry and operations research; 
  let students understand the technical issues in logistics and operations research; 
and  
  teach students how to solve various logistics and operation research problems 
using mathematics techniques and computer algorithms. 
Intended  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Learning 
Outcomes  Professional/academic knowledge and skills 
(a)  understand the logistics industry and its operation; 
(b)  be aware of the various factors that affect the performance of a supply chain 
and their tradeoffs; and 
(c)  solve  various  logistics  problems  using  computer  techniques  such  as 
programming and algorithms. 
Attributes for all-roundedness 
(d)  identify and develop problem solutions in a logical manner;  
(e)  solve complex problems in groups and develop group work; and 
(f)  improve  presentation  and  communication  skills  (through  group  project 
presentations). 
Dec 2018  
Subject 
Topic 
Synopsis/ 
Indicative  1.  Introduction to Logistics and Operations Research (OR) 
Syllabus 
Background of Logistics and OR; Technical Problems in Logistics and OR 
2.  Transportation 
Transportation  Models;  Vehicle  Routing;  Path  Scheduling;  Route 
Maintenance; Bin Packing 
3.  Inventory Control 
Inventory Cost Model; Inventory Control  
4.  Network Flow 
Maximum Flow; Multi-commodity Flow; Minimum Cost Flow 
5.  Forecasting 
Linear Regression Model; Non-linear regression model; Forecasting Error 
6.  Facility Placement 
Optimal Location Problem  
7.  Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) and e-Logistics 
RFID application; RFID technical specification, Electronic Product Code; 
Physical Markup Language 
 
Teaching/  This subject aims to introduce the field of logistics and operations research to 
Learning  students, and teach the students how to exploit computer technology to solve classic 
Methodology  problems in logistics and operations research.  
The lectures will be used to deliver course material that will be practiced/reinforced 
during the tutorials.   Group project presentation will train students’ presentation 
skills. 
 
Assessment 
Specific assessment  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to be 
Methods in 
methods/tasks  weighting  assessed (Please tick as appropriate) 
Alignment with 
Intended 
a  b  c  d  e  f 
Learning 
Outcomes 
Continuous             
Assessment 
60% 
1. Assignments, Tests & 
Projects (Case             
Studies) 
Examination  40%             
Total   100%   
 
Dec 2018 Student Study  Class contact: 
Effort Expected  
  Lecture  39 Hrs. 
  Tutorial/Lab  0 Hrs. 
Other student study effort: 
  Assignments, Quizzes, Projects, Exam  80 Hrs. 
Total student study effort   119 Hrs. 
Reading List  Reference Books: 
and References 
1.  Taha, Hamdy A., Operations Research: An Introduction, 9th Edition, 2010. 
2.  Simchi-Levi, D., Chen, X. and Bramel, J., The Logic of Logistics: Theory, 
Algorithms, and Applications for Logistics and Supply Chain Management, 
2005. 
3.  Ballou, Roland H., Business Logistics/Supply Chain Management, 5th Edition, 
Prentice Hall, 2003. 
 
Dec 2018 