Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP2432 
Subject Title  Operating Systems 
Credit Value  3 
Level  3 
Pre-requisite /  Pre-requisite: COMP2011 
Co-requisite / 
Exclusion 
Objectives  The objectives of this subject are to: 
  introduce to students about the different types of services provided by operating 
systems; 
  equip students with knowledge and understanding on the concepts and theories 
of operating systems; and 
  equip students with skills on the implementation issues of operating systems. 
Intended  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Learning 
Outcomes  Professional/academic knowledge and skills 
(a)  identify the services provided by operating systems; 
(b)  understand the internal structure of an operating system and be able to write 
programs using system calls; and 
(c)  understand and solve problems involving key concepts and theories in operating 
systems,  including  process  control,  mutual  exclusion,  deadlock  and 
synchronization. 
Attributes for all-roundedness 
(d)  develop skills in problem solving using systematic approaches; and 
(e)  solve complex problems in groups and develop group work. 
Dec 2018  
Subject 
Topic 
Synopsis/ 
Indicative  1.  Introduction to Operating Systems 
Syllabus 
Types  and  functionalities  of  operating  systems;  system  components  and 
services; resource management. 
2.  Unix and Linux 
Usage of Unix and Linux; shell and commands; scripts; system calls. 
3.  Process Management 
Process concepts; process manipulation; asynchronous concurrent processes; 
process  communication;  mutual  exclusion;  synchronization;  deadlock; 
scheduling algorithms. 
4.  Memory and Secondary Storage Management 
Virtual  memory;  paging  and  segmentation  system;  secondary  storage 
allocation; directory and file system structure. 
5.  Protection and Security 
Protection and access control; capabilities; security and cryptography. 
6.  Case Studies on Operating Systems 
Structure of Unix, Linux, Mac OS, Windows 7, etc. 
 
Teaching/  During the lectures, students will come across the common concepts and theories in 
Learning  operating systems. Those concepts and theories would be explained with reference 
Methodology  to real operating systems such as Unix and Linux. Case studies on those operating 
systems would be provided. 
During the laboratories, students will have to practice the OS usage and concepts, 
via programming with different system calls and scripts to achieve the learning 
effect. 
During the tutorials, students will have the opportunity to practice and apply what 
they have learned during the lecture to reinforce their knowledge. 
Written and programming assignments let students apply their knowledge to solve 
problems. The group project provides the students an environment to work together 
for a bigger problem and to stimulate learning from peers. 
Dec 2018  
Assessment 
Specific assessment  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to 
Methods in 
methods/tasks  weighting  be assessed (Please tick as 
Alignment with 
appropriate) 
Intended 
Learning 
a  b  c  d  e 
Outcomes 
Continuous Assessment  55%           
Examination  45%           
Total   100%   
Explanation of the appropriateness of the assessment methods in assessing the 
intended learning outcomes: 
The course will be accessed by assignments, project, test and examination. 
Assignments are designed to reinforce the concepts and algorithms learned in the 
lecture and laboratory, by solving bigger problems. Project is used to develop 
students’ analytic and problem solving skills by implementing a significant piece of 
software. Test and examination are used to assess independent problem solving and 
critical thinking skills.
 
Student Study  Class contact: 
Effort Expected  
  Lecture  39 Hrs. 
  Tutorial/Lab  13 Hrs. 
Other student study effort: 
  Assignments, Projects, Self-study, Test and Exam 
53 Hrs. 
Preparation 
Total student study effort   105 Hrs. 
Reading List  Textbook: 
and References 
1.  Silberschatz, A., Galvin, P.B. and Gagne, G., Operating System Concepts, 8th 
Edition, John Wiley and Sons, 2009. 
Reference Books: 
1.  Elmasri,  E.,  Carrick,  A.G.  and  Levine,  D.,  Operating  Systems:  A  Spiral 
Approach, McGraw Hill, 2010. 
2.  Dhamdhere,  D.M.,  Operating  Systems:  A  Concept-based  Approach,  2nd 
Edition, McGraw Hill, 2006. 
3.  Diaz, C., Introduction to Unix/Linux, Thomson, 2007. 
4.  Robbins, K.A., Unix Systems Programming, Prentice Hall, 2003. 
 
Dec 2018 