Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP2121 
Subject Title  E-Business 
Credit Value  3 
Level  2 
Pre-requisite /   
Co-requisite / 
Exclusion 
Objectives  The objectives of this subject are to: 
  introduce  the  fundamental  concepts  in  the  use  and  application  of 
telecommunications, systems and technology in the e-business environment; 
  introduce new opportunities and expectations created through the use of e-
Business  processes  enabled  by  integrating  information  systems, 
telecommunications and internet-based technologies; and 
  provide hands-on training for designing e-business applications and web sites 
using the market software packages, web authoring and development tools. 
Intended  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Learning 
Outcomes  Professional/academic knowledge and skills 
(a)  understand what an e-Business system is, what the components are, and how e-
Business  systems  interact  with  and  support  all  aspects  of  organisational 
activities; 
(b)  apply  the  functions  of  the  various  types  of  hardware,  software, 
telecommunications, security and their uses to enable and support integrated, e-
Business processes in any organisation; 
(c)  understand  the  strategies  and  approaches  for  the  e-business  processes 
engineering; 
(d)  understand  the  basic  methods  and  procedures  involved  in  planning  and 
controlling the development and modification of an e-Business system in an 
organisation; and 
(e)  possess the ability to design e-business applications. 
Attributes for all-roundedness 
(f)  improve their critical thinking skills and analytical skills in terms of how 
information systems interface with the organisation, how an organisation can 
gain a sustainable competitive advantage through the applications of e-Business 
systems, and the challenges and barriers of e-business application development 
through case studies and group discussion; and 
Dec 2018 (g)  enhance their problem  solving skill,  team  working skills,  technical  report 
writing and presentation skill through e-business application design group 
project. 
 
Subject 
Topic 
Synopsis/ 
Indicative  1.  Overview of E-Business 
Syllabus 
E-commerce vs e-business; internet, intranet and extranet; e-business models; 
the core business area in organizations; foundation of information systems in 
business;  the  intranetworked  and  internetworked  E-business  enterprise; 
industrial applications of e-business system. 
2.  Software Solution for E-Business 
Languages for the web; searching mechanisms; software agents; multimedia 
and webcasting on the  web;  decision making;  packaged solutions  for e-
business; data integration with XML. 
3.  The Social Infrastructure for E-Business 
E-business planning; e-business strategy; e-business management; e-business 
development; e-business evaluation. 
4.  The Technical Infrastructure for E-Business 
Access devices and channels; electronic delivery of goods and services; the 
web;  front-end  and  backend  computing  infrastructure;  communication 
protocols;  network  and  data  security;  authentication;  encryption;  digital 
payments, and digital money. 
5.  E-Business System Design 
E-business system design; web pages design; web database design; systems 
integration. 
6.  E-Business Environments 
The economic environment; the social environment; the political environment; 
the ethical environment for e-business. 
Laboratory: 
Topic 
1.  Overview of market e-business software packages. 
2.  E-business system and webpage design. 
Case Study: 
Topic 
1.  Case study of e-business process engineering. 
2.  Case study of e-business application development. 
3.  Case study of global e-business and total integrated e-business solution. 
 
Dec 2018 Teaching/  This subject emphasizes the technical/practical aspects of e-business and the weekly 
Learning  lectures include case studies and example problems. 
Methodology 
The regular lab sessions will be used to deliver lab tutorials, case studies, and 
programming practices. 
Measurements will be done by class and lab quizzes, three assignments. Feedback 
will be provided on quizzes/assignments/tests to improve learning and performance. 
 
Assessment 
Specific assessment  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to be 
Methods in 
methods/tasks  weighting  assessed (Please tick as appropriate) 
Alignment with 
Intended 
a  b  c  d  e  f  g 
Learning 
Outcomes 
Continuous 
             
Assessment 
1. Assignments               
2. Lab Exercises               
60% 
3. Quizzes               
4. Project               
5. Mid-Term               
Examination  40%               
Total   100%   
Explanation of the appropriateness of the assessment methods in assessing the 
intended learning outcomes: 
The  continuous  assessment  will  help  to  assess  students  understanding  of  the 
concepts, problem solving skills and competence in developing software solutions to 
the e-business problems.  The project component of the assessment is intended to 
impart hands on experience in project management, working in team spirit and 
sharing the responsibilities. 
The assessment in the final examination is intended to assess the critical thinking, 
problem solving, introductory knowledge and application skills to elementary e-
business problems. This assessment will also help to ascertain the knowledge gained 
from the various course components during this course.
 
Dec 2018 Student Study  Class contact: 
Effort Expected  
  Lecture  26 Hrs. 
  Tutorial/Lab/Case Study  13 Hrs. 
Other student study effort: 
  Regular Reading and Assignment Efforts  80 Hrs. 
Total student study effort   119 Hrs. 
Reading List  Reference Books: 
and References 
1.  Chaffey, D., E-Business and E-Commerce Management, 4th Edition, Prentice 
Hall, 2009. 
2.  Laudon, K. C. and Traver, C. G., E-Commerce Business, Commerce, and 
Society, 4th Edition, Prentice Hall, 2010. 
3.  O’Brien, Marakas, Introduction to Information Systems, 14th Edition, McGraw-
Hill, 2008. 
4.  Turban, E., King, D., Liang, T. P. and Turban, D., Electronic Commerce: A 
Managerial Perspective 2010, 6th Edition, Prentice Hall, 2009. 
5.  Bhasker, B., Electronic commerce: framework, technologies and applications, 
3rd Edition, McGraw Hill, 2009. 
 
Dec 2018 