Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP1002 
Subject Title  Computational Thinking and Problem Solving 
Credit Value  4 
Level  1 
Pre-requisite /  Nil 
Co-requisite / 
Exclusion 
Objectives  The objective of this subject is to: 
  equip  students  with  no  prior  experience  on  computer  programming  with 
fundamental computational and skills. In particular, the students will learn how 
to abstract and solve problems, and how to implement them in a high-level 
programming language. 
Intended  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Learning 
Outcomes  Professional/academic knowledge and skills: 
(a)  understand the basic concepts of computational thinking, including sequential 
logic, abstractions, conceptualization and problem-solving; 
(b)  model real-life problems as computational problems; 
(c)  develop computer solutions to problems of low-to-moderate complexity and 
implement them using a high-level programming language, e.g. Python; and 
(d)  acquire the basic programming skills to implement solutions using suitable data 
types and constructs. 
 
Subject 
Topic 
Synopsis/ 
Indicative  1.  Introduction to Computational Thinking 
Syllabus 
Formulating problems for computers to solve them; logically organizing and 
analyzing data; representing data through abstractions; automating solutions 
through algorithmic thinking; implementing efficient solutions; generalizing 
the problem-solving process. 
2.  Problem Solving through a High-level Programming Language 
Computing with  numbers and strings; lists and files;  functions; decision 
structures; loop structures and Booleans; sets and dictionaries. 
3.  Program Design 
Problem analysis and design; function abstraction and modularization; bottom 
up and top down approaches 
Dec 2018 4.  Application of Computational Techniques 
Applications in different domains, for example, financial data computing, 
puzzle  solving,  development  of  games,  web  development,  and  scientific 
computation. 
 
Teaching/  The 39-hour lecture will cover the main concepts and ideas in solving problems with 
Learning  computers and illustrate them using many examples. The students will also be given 
Methodology  time to practice those concepts and ideas right away. The laboratory will be used to 
mainly cover program design. 
 
Assessment 
Specific assessment  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to 
Methods in 
methods/tasks  weighting  be assessed (Please tick as 
Alignment with 
appropriate) 
Intended 
Learning 
a  b  c  d   
Outcomes 
Continuous Assessment   
55%         
(such as assignments, 
quizzes and mini-projects) 
Examination  45%           
Total   100%   
Explanation of the appropriateness of the assessment methods in assessing the 
intended learning outcomes: 
Assignments and quizzes are designed to help achieve learning outcome (a) and (d), 
whereas the two mini-projects are designed for achieving (b) and (c). 
The examination will cover both (a), (c) and (d).
 
Student Study  Class contact: 
Effort Expected  
  Lecture/Lab/Tutorials  52 Hrs. 
Other student study effort: 
  Assignments, Tests, Examination  53 Hrs. 
  Self-Study  35 Hrs. 
Total student study effort   140 Hrs. 
Reading List  Reference Books: 
and References 
1.  Kowalski, Robert, Computational Logic and Human Thinking: How to be 
Artificially Intelligent, 1st Edition, Cambridge University Press, 2011. 
2.  Dromey, R. G., How to Solve It by Computer. Prentice-Hall International, 
Englewood Cliffs, NJ, USA, 1982. (There is a free copy online.) 
Dec 2018 3.  Zelle, John, Python Programming: An Introduction to Computer Science 3rd 
Edition. Franklin, Beedle & Associates Inc., 2017. 
4.  Downey, Allen B., Think Python: How to Think Like a Computer Scientist, 
Green Tea Press, 2015. 
5.  Punch, William F. and Enbody, Richard, The Practice of Computing Using 
Python, 3rd Edition, Addison Wesley, 2017. 
6.  Gries, Paul, Campbell, Jennifer and Montojo, Jason, Practical Programming: 
An Introduction to Computer Science Using Python 3.6. Pragmatic Bookshelf, 
3rd Edition, 2017.  
 
Dec 2018 