 
 
Subject Description Form  
 
 
Subject Code  COMP3S02  
Subject Title  Socially Responsible Global Leadership in a Digital World 
Credit Value  3 
Level  3 
Pre-requisite /    nil 
Co-requisite/ 
Exclusion 
Objectives  The objectives of this subject are: 
  1.  To introduce the concepts of socially responsible leadership and global 
leadership, and to facilitate students to practice and demonstrate these 
competencies in practice; 
2.  To raise students’ awareness of the impact of technology and social media 
on  their  interactions  and  relationships,  and  to  educate  them  on  how 
leadership may be practiced in a digital arena; 
3.  To educate students about different mental models of leadership and global 
citizenship, and to facilitate them to identify their own models and the 
impact on their own social interactions and leadership; 
4.  To acquaint students with skills and competencies necessary for interacting 
with diverse groups of people, and to facilitate them to practice these skills 
and competencies 
5.  To raise students’ awareness of issues of privilege and power, and to nurture 
sensitivity and empathy to people different from oneself 
6.  To nurture students’ sense of civic responsibility and engagement. 
 
Intended Learning  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Outcomes  a.  Identify  and  demonstrate  attributes  and  competencies  required  of 
responsible global leaders (application) 
(Note 1) 
b.  Describe  the  influence  of  increasing  digitization  on  society  and  the 
implications for human interactions and leadership (academic) 
c.  Link their own mental models about leadership and global citizenship with 
their social interactions and their ability to serve. (linkage) 
d.  Function  competently  when  engaging  with  cross-cultural  and  cross-
institutional peers, to identify strategies and provide solutions to effectively 
serve communities in need.  (application) 
e.  Use written and/or verbal communication to analyze complex social issues 
and challenges from local, national and/or international points of view.  
(application) 
f.  Demonstrate sensitivity and empathy for others, especially those different 
from oneself. (empathy) 
g.  Reflect on issues and situations of privilege and power, and their own role 
and responsibilities as a citizen and professional in society (reflect) 
 
Subject Synopsis/  The topics in the course syllabus cover major issues relevant to global and 
Indicative Syllabus  cross-cultural competencies, leadership and social responsibility:  
 
Page 1 of 7 
  
(Note 2)   Concept and Practice of Service-Learning: 
  Principles and concepts of service-learning  
  Benefits of service-learning to students and the community 
  Responsibilities, Ethics and Attitudes in service-learning   
  Reflection as a tool for learning  
 
 
Discipline-Specific Concepts, Issues and Skills 
  The Social Change Model of leadership development.  The Seven 
“C”s: consciousness of self, congruence, commitment, collaboration, 
common purpose, controversy with civility and citizenship. 
  Technology and Society.  Societal impact of digital media.  Online 
identity and technology-facilitated interactions.   
  Intercultural competence.  Dimensions of cultural variability.  Cultural 
competencies  and  cross-cultural  communication.  Tolerance  versus 
respect.  
  Dimensions of global mindset. Intellectual, psychological and social 
capital.    Developmental  model  of  intercultural  sensitivity.  
Ethnocentrism and ethnorelativism. 
  Leadership as a social construct. Leadership attributes and behaviors 
and culture. Authority and decision-making across cultures. 
  Power, privilege and identity.  Types of power and privilege.  The 
nature  of  prejudice,  stereotyping,  and  discrimination.    Issues  and 
impact of cultural understanding and misunderstanding.  
  Teamwork and collaboration.  Effective team processes.  Teamwork in 
virtual spaces.  Effective use of technology in team collaborations and 
communication. 
 
 
Project-Specific Concepts, Issues and Skills 
  Specific technical topics (e.g. structure of the Internet) and skills (e.g. 
programming, soldering, classroom  management,  etc)  required for 
specific projects. 
  Specific historical, cultural, and political background for off-shore 
sites (e.g. Cambodia, Rwanda), or targeted local communities (e.g. 
refugees, new immigrants, ethnic minorities).   
  Health, safety and other issues relevant to the service project 
  Moral and ethical concerns specific to the project and beneficiaries. 
  Project planning, health, safety and other issues relevant to the projects 
 
Teaching/Learning  e-Learning Module in Service-Learning 
Methodology  
The e-learning module is developed and delivered by the Office of Service-
(Note 3)  Learning at PolyU, consisting of readings, exercises and assessments that 
are designed to introduce students to the basic concept and practice of 
service-learning. 
 
Page 2 of 7 
  
Students are  required to successfully  complete the e-learning  module 
within the first four weeks of the semester in which they are taking the 
subject.  
 
 
Discipline-Specific e-Learning and Seminars 
The discipline-specific learning activities will include both online modules 
and face-to-face seminars/discussion sessions.  The online modules will 
deliver the academic content and include readings, quizzes, and online 
discussion forums.  
 
The seminars and discussion sessions are designed to complement the 
online modules and will provide a forum for students to discuss these 
issues in small groups.  The objective is to explore these issues in greater 
depth in an interactive setting.   
 
Assessment tasks (class exercises, reflective essays) will be included to 
assess the learning outcomes and encourage participation. 
 
Where appropriate, the class will take on the format of a global class that 
is held in conjunction with an overseas institution.  This will involve 
online, linked lectures and/or interactive seminars with teachers and/or 
students  from  the  partnering  institution.    Students  will  also  have  to 
complete  projects  in  teams  together  with  students  from  the  other 
institution. 
 
 
Project-Specific Seminars, Tutorials and/or Workshops  
The project-specific seminars, tutorials and/or workshops are designed to: 
(a) develop students’ understanding of the targeted community and other 
issues relating to the service-learning project, (b) provide training for 
students in generic skills in planning and delivering the service project.  
Guest experts and speakers will be invited to contribute to some of these 
sessions as appropriate.  Where possible, a hands-on interactive format will 
be used. 
 
Students are required to attend all of the discipline-specific and project-
specific lectures, seminars and workshops and successfully complete all of 
the required assignments/learning tasks prior to participation in the service 
learning project.  Students who are not adequately prepared will not be 
allowed to continue in the course or participate in the service projects. 
 
 
 
Service Learning Projects 
Students will be required to take part in a cross-cultural, cross-institutional 
service  project  in  underserved  areas  in  Hong  Kong  or  overseas  that 
addresses genuine needs in an underserved community.  The project will 
require collaboration with peers (e.g. fellow university students) from local 
as well as other higher education institutions (e.g. universities from the 
Page 3 of 7 
  
University Social Responsibility Network or from the Global Leadership 
and Civic Engagement Program.) 
 
The  service-learning  projects  will  be  designed  to  develop  students’ 
creativity,  problem-solving,  teamwork  and  communication  abilities.  
Projects  will  emphasize  hands-on  tasks  and  involve  team  as  well  as 
individual work.  Students will be encouraged to research on specific 
problems.  They will also be challenged to design and implement solutions, 
applying their discipline-specific knowledge to meet community needs. 
 
Students may opt to undertake a pre-approved exchange service project or 
attachment  organized  by  PolyU  Office  of  Service-Learning  and  pre-
approved by the teaching team.  This project/attachment must meet the 
following requirements: (1) it must be at least 4 weeks in length and 
incorporate at least 40 service hours; (2) it must be hosted by a reputable 
university or NGO with a track record in service-learning; (3) it must 
involve  students  in  direct,  hands-on  interaction  with  an  underserved 
community; (4) it must enable students to develop a deeper understanding 
of global issues regarding social change and civic engagement; (5) it must 
be letter-grade assessed by a faculty member or a project supervisor who 
has substantive direct supervision of the student and expertise in education 
and civic engagement. 
 
Students may be required to shoulder a portion of their incurred costs for 
overseas projects. 
 
 
Review Sessions, Reflective Journals and Report  
Students will be required to write reflective journals and reports before, 
during and after the service learning project to demonstrate (a) their 
intellectual learning of the academic concepts and their ability to: (b) link 
their  service learning experiences with the  academic  focus/discipline-
specific  content  of  the  subject,  (c)  reflect  on  their  service  learning 
experience to identify their learning gains as well as areas for future 
improvements, (d) reflect on their roles and social responsibilities.  Class 
presentations of their reflections and activities may also be required. 
 
To guide students in using reflection as a tool for learning, and to assess 
their ability in achieving the above learning objectives, reflection and 
review sessions will also be held both during and after the service learning 
project. 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessment 
Methods in  Specific assessment  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to 
Alignment with  methods/tasks   weighting  be assessed (Please tick as appropriate) 
Intended Learning 
a  b  c  d  e  f  g 
Outcomes 
(Note 4) 
Page 4 of 7 
  
E-Learning module in  Pass/fail               
service-learning 
Attitude, discipline and  10%  x      x  x     
contribution during 
preparation (individual) 
Reflective essay on  10%    x  x    x     
academic learning 
(individual) 
Quality of preparation  20%        x       
and project deliverables 
(group) 
Performance during  40%  x      x    x   
service delivery 
(individual) 
Summative reflective  20%      x    x  x  x 
journal (individual) 
Total   100 %   
 
Explanation of the appropriateness of the assessment methods in assessing the 
intended learning outcomes: 
 
The e-Learning Module in service-learning includes assignments and learning 
tasks that are designed to educate students about the theories and motivations 
behind service-learning and prepare them to learn effectively in service-learning. 
During the preparation period, students will be required to participate in online 
and face-to-face discussion groups, and to write proposals and plans for the 
projects as preparation for service.  Students’ attitude, discipline and contribution 
towards these activities will be a demonstration of their ability to learn attributes 
and competencies required of responsible global leaders (ILO a), to function 
competently with diverse others in identifying strategies for addressing a social 
issue (ILO d), and to use written and verbal methods of communication to analyze 
and describe complex social issues (ILO e). 
 
At the end of the preparation period, students will be asked to write a reflective 
essay that on the academic concepts taught in lectures and workshops.  The 
quality of this essay will demonstrate their ability to describe the implications of 
digitization on human interactions and society (ILO b), and to link their own 
mental  models  about  leadership  and  global  citizenship  with  their  social 
interactions (ILO c). 
 
The quality of the project deliverables will assess students’ ability to function 
competently when engaging with diverse others to provide solutions to effectively 
serve communities in need (ILO d). 
 
The  students’  attitude  and  performance  in  the  rendering  of  service,  their 
collaboration with their teammates and the community and their degree of 
engagement with service recipients will require them to demonstrate attributes 
and  competencies  required  of  responsible  global  leaders  (ILO  a),  function 
competently  with  diverse  others  to  provide  solutions  to  effectively  serve 
Page 5 of 7 
  
communities in need (ILO d), and demonstrate sensitivity and empathy for others 
(ILO e).  
 
The summative reflective report assesses students’ ability to link their own mental 
models about leadership and global citizenship with their social interactions and 
ability to serve (ILO c), their empathy for the underserved communities (ILO f), 
their ability to reflect on their role and responsibilities in the society (ILO g), and 
their ability to use written communication to analyze and describe complex social 
issues and challenges (ILO e). 
 
Student Study  Class contact:   
Effort Expected 
    Lectures, tutorials and discussion groups  20 Hrs. 
  Workshops and labs  15 Hrs. 
  Reflection sessions   10 Hrs. 
Other student study effort:   
  E-learning modules on leadership and service-learning  20 Hrs. 
  Preparation and planning for project  20 Hrs. 
  Rendering of service  40 Hrs 
  Reflection and review  10 Hrs 
   
Total student study effort   135 Hrs. 
Reading List and  1.  NCLP (Author), Susan R. Komives (Editor), Wendy Wagner (Editor), 
References  Leadership for a Better World: Understanding the Social Change 
Model of Leadership Development, Jossey-Bass (2016) 
2.  Sherry  Turkle.  Alone  Together:  Why  We  Expect  More  from 
Technology and Less from Each Other, Basic Books (2017) 
3.  Maurianne Adams et al. (Eds) Readings for Diversity and Social 
Justice, Routledge (2010) 
4.  Allan  Johnson,  Privilege,  Power,  and  Difference,  McGraw-Hill 
(2005) 
5.  Christine  M.  Cress,  Peter  J.  Collier,  Vicki  L.  Reitenauer  and 
Associates, Learning Through Serving – A Student Guidebook for 
Service-Learning Across the Disciplines, Stylus Publishing (2005). 
6.  House, J. H., & Javidan, M. (2004). Overview of GLOBE. In House, 
R. J., Hanges, P. J., Javidan, M., Dorfman, P. W., & Gupta, V. (Eds.), 
Culture,  leadership,  and  organizations:  The  GLOBE  study  of  62 
societies (pp. 9-28). Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage. 
7.  Javidan,  M.  (2010).    Bringing  the  global  mindset  to  leadership.  
Harvard Business Review. 
8.  Irving, J.A. (2009).  Intercultural competence in leadership education.  
Journal of Business and Educational Leadership, 1(1) 3-13. 
9.  Komives,  S.R.  Lucas,  N.  &  McMahon,  T.R.  (2013).  Exploring 
leadership: For college students who want to make a difference (3rd 
ed). San Francisco: Jossey-Bass. 
Page 6 of 7 
  
10.  Other readings from journals, news articles, and case studies provided 
by the subject lecturer. 
 
 
 
Note 1:  Intended Learning Outcomes 
Intended learning outcomes should state what students should be able to do or attain upon completion of the subject. 
Subject outcomes are expected to contribute to the attainment of the overall programme outcomes.    
 
Note 2:  Subject Synopsis/ Indicative Syllabus 
The syllabus should adequately address the intended learning outcomes. At the same time over-crowding of the syllabus 
should be avoided.  
 
Note 3:  Teaching/Learning Methodology 
This section should include a brief description of the teaching and learning methods to be employed to facilitate learning, 
and a justification of how the methods are aligned with the intended learning outcomes of the subject.  
 
Note 4:  Assessment Method 
This section should include the assessment method(s) to be used and its relative weighting, and indicate which of the 
subject intended learning outcomes that each method purports to assess. It should also provide a brief explanation of the 
appropriateness of the assessment methods in assessing the intended learning outcomes.  
 
Page 7 of 7 
 