 
Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP4431 
Subject Title  Artificial Intelligence 
Credit Value  3 
Level  4 
Pre-requisite /  Pre-requisite: COMP2011 
Co-requisite / 
Exclusion   
Objectives  The objectives of this subject are to: 
    introduce the fundamental concepts of artificial intelligence; 
  equip  students  with  the  knowledge  and  skills  in  programming  of  artificial 
intelligence techniques; 
  master the problem formulation and the typical intelligent algorithms 
  understand the technical development of artificial intelligence 
  aware the ethical issues related to artificial intelligence. 
Intended  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Learning 
Outcomes  Professional/academic knowledge and skills 
  (a)  understand the history, development, and technical trend of artificial intelligence; 
(b)  understand the important concepts in artificial intelligence and the problem 
addressed by intelligent techniques; 
(c)  familiarize with typical programming language and tool to implement artificial 
intelligence techniques; 
(d)  master the characters of intelligent agent, knowledge based agent, problem 
solving agents, multiagent, and the typical examples.  
(e)  learn the design rationale and the typical algorithms of problem-solving agents, 
in particular, search algorithms and their applications in real world;  
(f)  master the skills and techniques in machine learning, such as decision tree 
induction, support vector machine, and artificial neural networks; 
(g)  understand the ethical issues related to artificial intelligence.  
Attributes for all-roundedness 
(h)  explore the nature of human intelligence and its role in problem solving; 
Dec 2018  
(i)  deepen  thoughts  and  understanding  of  human  abilities  such  as  learning, 
reasoning and planning; and 
(j)  appreciate the rooted philosophical arguments in artificial intelligence and its 
impact on human thoughts. 
 
Subject 
Topic 
Synopsis/ 
Indicative  1.  Introduction to Artificial Intelligence 
Syllabus 
Definition of artificial intelligence; basic concepts of human intelligence; scope 
  of classical artificial intelligence problem; the birth, golden time, and the winter 
of artificial intelligence.  
2.  Agent and Knowledge Base 
Definition of agents and rationality; design an intelligent agent; knowledge-
based agents and knowledge representation language; inference using forward 
chain and backward chain; uncertainty and Bayesian networks. 
3.  Problem-solving Agents 
Problem-solving agents; uninformed search strategies and typical algorithms; 
informed search strategies and typical algorithms; heuristic functions; hill-
climbing search, simulated annealing search, genetic algorithms; constraint 
satisfaction problem and game problem. 
4.  Machine Learning 
Supervised  learning,  unsupervised  learning,  and  reinforcement  learning; 
classification, clustering, and regression; decision tree; support vector machine, 
artificial neural networks. 
5.  Applications and Ethical Issues 
Latest development of artificial intelligence; typical applications; ethical issues 
of artificial intelligence techniques and applications; benefits and risk to human 
society.  
 
Teaching/  During the lecture, students will come across the concepts, algorithms and applications 
Learning  in artificial intelligence, and will be supplemented by exercises, labs, and project. 
Methodology  
 
Dec 2018  
 
Assessment 
Specific  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to be assessed 
Methods in 
assessment  weighting  (Please tick as appropriate) 
Alignment 
methods/tasks 
with Intended 
a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j 
Learning 
Outcomes 
1. Continuous  55% 
                   
Assessment 
 
2. Final  45% 
                   
Examination 
Total   100 %   
Explanation  of  the  appropriateness  of  the  assessment  methods  in  assessing  the 
intended learning outcomes: 
Continuous assessments consist of a project, lab exercises, and quizzes, which are 
designed to facilitate students to achieve intended learning outcomes. Lab exercise is 
designed  to  encourage  students  to  acquire  good  understanding  of  the  relevant 
knowledge, practice in order to enrich their hands-on experience with various software 
tools. The project is designed to enhance students’ ability to acquire the understanding 
and using different knowledge, principles, techniques, tools to solve a real problem 
through team. Quizzes are to ensure the students understand the concepts. 
Student Study  Class contact: 
Effort 
Expected     Class activities including lecturers, tutorial, and labs  39 Hrs. 
 
Other student study effort: 
  Coursework and Project  80 Hrs. 
Total student study effort   119 Hrs. 
Reading List  Textbooks: 
and References 
1.  Russell, Stuart and Norvig, Peter, Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach, 
3rd Edition, Pearson, 2009. 
Reference Books: 
1.  Pal,  Sankar  K.  and  Shiu,  Simon  C.  K.,  Foundations  of  Soft  Case-Based 
Reasoning, John Wiley, 2004. 
2.  Negnevitsky, Michael, Artificial Intelligence: A Guide to Intelligent Systems, 2nd 
Edition, Addison Wesley, 2005. 
 
Dec 2018 