Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP4342 
Subject Title  Mobile Computing 
Credit Value  3 
Level  4 
Pre-requisite /   Pre-requisite: COMP2411 and COMP2432/COMP1411 
Co-requisite / 
Exclusion   
Objectives  The objectives of this subject are to: 
    learn about the concepts and principles of mobile computing; 
  explore both theoretical and practical issues of mobile computing; and 
  develop skills of finding solutions and building software for mobile computing 
applications. 
Intended  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Learning 
Outcomes  Professional/academic knowledge and skills 
  (a)  grasp  the  concepts  and  features  of  mobile  computing  technologies  and 
applications; 
 
 
(b)  have  a  good  understanding  of  how  the  underlying  wireless  and  mobile 
 
communication networks work, their technical features, and what kinds of 
 
applications they can support; 
 
  (c)  identify the important issues of developing mobile computing systems and 
  applications; 
 
  (d)  organize the functionalities and components of mobile computing systems into 
  different layers and apply various techniques for realizing the functionalities; 
 
  (e)  develop mobile computing applications by analyzing their characteristics and 
  requirements,  selecting  the  appropriate  computing  models  and  software 
  architectures, and applying standard programming languages and tools; and 
 
  (f)  organize and manage software built for deployment and demonstration. 
 
Attributes for all-roundedness 
 
 
(g)  analyze  requirements  and  solve  problems  using  systematic  planning  and 
 
development approaches; 
 
 
(h)  search for and read critically the information required in solving problems; 
 
 
(i)  write and present technical survey papers in well-organized and logical manner; 
 
and 
   
Jan 2019 (j)  work in teams and collaborate with classmates. 
 
Subject 
Topic 
Synopsis/ 
Indicative  1.  Overview of Mobile Computing 
Syllabus 
Motivations, concepts, challenges, and applications of mobile computing; 
  relationship  with  distributed  computing,  Internet  computing, 
ubiquitous/pervasive computing; Mobile computing models and architectures. 
2.  Wireless Networks 
Wireless communication concepts; classification of wireless networks: Cellar 
networks (1G, 2G, 3G, 4G, 5G), WLAN, WPAN, WMAN, Satellite networks. 
3.  Mobile Device Platforms 
Mobile  devices;  mobile  OS  (Android,  iOS,  Windows  Mobile  and  .Net 
Framework). 
4.  Wireless Mobile Internet 
Wireless Internet architecture; Wireless gateway; Wireless application server; 
Synchronization server; Messaging server; Mobile Internet proxy services 
(transcoding,  caching);  Data  dissemination;  Disconnected  operations 
(hording). 
5.  Mobile Ad Hoc Networks 
Concepts  and  applications;  routing  in  mobile  ad  hoc  networks;  sensor 
networks, mobile peer-to-peer computing. 
6.  Mobility Management 
Handoff and location management concepts; mobility management in PLMN; 
mobility  management  in  WLAN;  mobility  management  in  mobile  agent 
systems; adaptive location management methods. 
7.  Location-Based Services 
LBS applications; mobile positioning techniques; GIS; LBS architecture and 
protocols. 
Tutorials / Laboratory Experiment: 
Topic  Duration of Laboratory 
1.  Tutorials  7 Hrs. 
2.  Labs: Android Programming  6 Hrs. 
 
 
Teaching/  The subject includes lectures, tutorials, and labs. During lectures, the fundamental 
Learning  concepts and principles of mobile computing together with the challenging issues in 
Methodology   system  design  and  application  development  will  be  introduced.  Discussion  on 
various topics related to mobile computing will also be conducted. The labs serve the 
  purpose of training the students to apply the knowledge and technical skills learnt to 
develop applications, by using trendy programming platforms. Students are also 
encouraged to learn through self-study and team work. 
Jan 2019  
Assessment 
Specific  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to be assessed 
Methods in 
assessment  weighting  (Please tick as appropriate) 
Alignment with 
methods/tasks 
Intended 
a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j 
Learning 
Outcomes 
Continuous                     
Assessment 
 
1. Assignments                     
55% 
2. Lab Exercises                     
3. Project                     
4. Mid-term                     
Examination  45%                     
Total   100 %   
Assignments include individual an individual work on writing survey report and a 
group project on developing mobile computing applications.  Together with the 
tutorial and lab sessions, they will be used to assess students’ ability and skills to 
develop innovative applications and conduct survey on current trend of technology.  
Through group project, report writing and presentation skills will also be assessed.  
The mid-term and final exams are used to assess the students’ understanding, critical 
thinking, and problem solving abilities. 
Student Study  Class contact: 
Effort Expected  
    Lectures  26 Hrs. 
  Tutorials/Lab  13 Hrs. 
Other student study effort: 
  Assignments, Reading, Project, Exams  66 Hrs. 
Total student study effort   105 Hrs. 
Reading List  Textbooks: 
and References 
No particular textbook.  Reference books and articles will be used. 
Reference Books: 
1.  Schiller, Jochen, Mobile Communications, 2nd Edition, Pearson Education, 
2003. 
2.  Mallick, Martyn, Mobile and Wireless Design Essentials, Wiley Publishing, 
2003. 
3.  Kwok, Yu-Kwong Ricky and Lau, Vincent K. N., Wireless Internet and Mobile 
Computing:  Interoperability  and  Performance,  Wiley-IEEE  Press,  2007. 
(Google Book) 
Jan 2019 4.  Agrawal, Dharma P. and Zeng, Qing-An, Introduction to Wireless and Mobile 
Systems, 2nd Edition, Thomson Learning, 2006. 
5.  B’Far, Reza, Mobile Computing Principles: Designing and Developing Mobile 
Applications with UML and XML, Cambridge University Press, 2005. 
6.  Kamal, Raj, Mobile Computing, 2nd Edition, Oxford University Press, 2012. 
 
Jan 2019 