 
Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP4913 
Subject Title  Capstone Project 
Credit Value  6 
Level  4 
Pre-requisite /  Exclusion: Any other equivalent capstone project 
Co-requisite / 
Exclusion 
Objectives  The objectives of this subject are to: 
    provide a student the opportunities to apply and integrate his/her knowledge 
acquired throughout the undergraduate study; 
  develop the capabilities of a student in analyzing and solving complex and 
possibly real-life problems; and 
  train students with skills on systematic development and documentation of a 
significant piece of work. 
Intended  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Learning 
Outcomes  Professional/academic knowledge and skills 
  (a)  conduct literature survey to locate for materials and sources relevant to the 
selected problem area; 
(b)  understand the materials obtained and connect the materials with the problem 
to be solved; 
(c)  define and specify the problem precisely; 
(d)  assimilate and apply the knowledge learnt in generating good solutions to the 
problem; 
(e)  think critically the formulation of alternative  models and solutions  to  the 
problem, in the analysis of approaches to the solution and their implementation; 
and 
(f)  evaluate the final outcome in an objective manner; 
Attributes for all-roundedness 
(g)  improve presentation and communicate skills via oral presentation;  
(h)  enhance technical report writing skills with proper organization of materials; 
(i)  develop the ability to learn independently and to find/integrate information from 
different sources required in solving real-life problems; 
Dec 2018  
(j)  manage  the  project  efficiently  and  effectively  through  the  supervision  of 
supervisor(s); and 
(k)  work  collaboratively  with  related  parties  (e.g.  vendors,  sponsor  company, 
technical support staff, team-partners, research students, etc.). 
 
Subject 
1.  In-depth Study of a Topic Typically Proposed by the Supervisor 
Synopsis/ 
Indicative 
2.  Project Meeting and Planning 
Syllabus 
3.  Proposal Writing 
 
4.  Regular Progress Checking and Reporting 
5.  Project Documentation 
6.  Presentation and Demonstration 
Capstone Projects are normally proposed by academic staff of the department or in 
conjunction  with  external  organizations or other departments  in  the university. 
However, students may propose a topic along an area of their interest contingent upon 
the condition that they could find an interested academic staff to supervise the 
project. Each student will be assigned a supervisor who is in charge of the entire 
project. 
Teaching/  The capstone project spans across the academic year for two consecutive semesters.  
Learning  The teaching/learning activities include regular project meetings with the supervisor 
Methodology   and/or other involved parties, guided study of project materials, independent project 
development work and other project management tasks. 
 
Assessment 
Specific  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to be assessed 
Methods in 
assessment  weighting  (Please tick as appropriate) 
Alignment with 
methods/tasks 
Intended 
a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k 
Learning 
Outcomes 
Continuous  100% 
                     
Assessment 
 
Total   100 %   
Explanation of the appropriateness of the assessment methods in assessing the 
intended learning outcomes: 
The  capstone  project  will  be  accessed  by  the  supervisor  and  other  assessors. 
Attributes to be assessed include, but not limited to, Problem Identification, Problem 
Solving,  Communication  and  Presentation,  Project  Management,  and  Self-
Discipline. 
Capstone Projects should be problem-oriented and there is no restriction to the nature 
of the problem except that it should be relevant to the student’s study programme. 
The  project  could  be  practical,  academic  or  a  hybrid  in  which  the  student  is 
encouraged but not constrained to have some original contributions. Each student has 
to submit a proposal, a mid-term checkpoint progress report and a final report. The 
proposal must be approved by the supervisor before the student can proceed to the 
Dec 2018  
capstone project. An oral presentation and demonstration is essential at the end of the 
project. A mid-term presentation and demonstration may also be required for proper 
continuous assessment. 
Student Study  Class contact: 
Effort Expected  
    Lectures  0 Hrs. 
Other student study effort: 
  Searching and reading materials, meeting with 
supervisor / others, design and system development,  210 Hrs. 
testing, documentation, presentation, etc. 
Total student study effort   210 Hrs. 
Reading List  Reference Books: 
and References 
1.  Kumar, Ranjit, Research Methodology: A Step-by-step Guide for Beginners, 3rd 
Edition, SAGE Publications, 2011. 
2.  Burns,  Robert  B.,  Introduction  to  Research  Methods,  4th  Edition,  SAGE 
Publications, 2000. 
3.  Roberts, Carol M., The Dissertation Journey: A Practical and Comprehensive 
Guide to Planning, Writing, and Defending Your Dissertation, 3rd Edition, 
Corwin Press, 2007. 
4.  Mauch,  James  E.  and  Park,  Namgi,  Guide  to  the  Successful  Thesis  and 
Dissertation: A Handbook for Students and Faculty, 5th Edition, Marcel Dekker, 
2003. 
5.  Rudestam, Kjell Erik and Newton, Rae R., Surviving Your Dissertation: A 
Comprehensive Guide to Content and Process, 2nd Edition, Sage Publications, 
2001. 
6.  Garson,  G.  David,  Guide  to  Writing  Empirical  Papers,  Theses  and 
Dissertations, Marcel Dekker, 2002. 
7.  Reinhart, Susan M., Giving Academic Presentations, 2nd Edition, University of 
Michigan Press, 2013. 
8.  Oshima, Alice and Hogue, Ann, Writing Academic English, 4th Edition, Pearson 
Longman, 2006. 
9.  American Psychological Association. Publication Manual of the American 
Psychological Association, 6th Edition, American Psychological Association, 
2010. 
10.  Szuchman, Lenore T., Writing with Style: APA Style Made Easy, 5th Edition, 
Wadsworth/Cengage Learning, 2011. 
11.  Statistics, simulation, programming, and relevant books. 
12.  ACM and IEEE magazines, Transactions and Journals. 
Dec 2018  
13.  Other International Journals. 
14.  Relevant conference proceedings and magazines (including ACM and IEEE 
conferences). 
15.  Technical reports from universities and major companies. 
 
Dec 2018 