Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP4135 
Subject Title  Knowledge and Information Management 
Credit Value  3 
Level  4 
Pre-requisite /   
Co-requisite / 
Exclusion 
Objectives  The objectives of this subject are to: 
  equip  students  with  the  knowledge  and  understanding  of  the  acquisition, 
representation and processing of knowledge and information; 
  provide  students  with  the  concepts  and  application  of  knowledge  and 
information management; and 
  help  students  recognize  a  class  of  knowledge-based  systems  that  support 
decision-making activities. 
Intended  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Learning 
Outcomes  Professional/academic knowledge and skills 
(a)  understand and appreciate the fundamental knowledge and concepts in the 
acquisition, representation, processing of knowledge and information; 
(b)  collect knowledge and information management to support decision making; 
and 
(c)  apply the skills in real-life organizational problem solving with core methods, 
techniques, and tools of IT-enabled knowledge and information systems. 
Attributes for all-roundedness 
(d)  solve problems with critical thinking and analytical skills using systematic 
approaches; and 
(e)  solve problems in groups. 
Dec 2018  
Subject 
Topic 
Synopsis/ 
Indicative  1.   Introduction to Knowledge and Information Management 
Syllabus 
Data, information and knowledge; information processing; information and 
knowledge  society;  knowledge  as  enterprise  asset;  knowledge  network; 
difference between information and knowledge management; knowledge life 
cycle; knowledge acquisition, representation, storage and retrieval, transfer, 
application and management. 
2.  Knowledge and Information Management Approaches 
Schools of knowledge management: economic school, organizational school, 
strategic school; barrier to knowledge management; impact of culture and 
technology. 
3.  Knowledge and Information Acquisition and Representation 
Various  information  and  knowledge  acquisition  techniques;  different 
representation  of  information  and  knowledge  including  rules,  frames, 
semantic networks, Bayesian networks, first order, modal and temporal logics, 
ontology. 
4.  Knowledge and Information Processing 
Information storage, retrieval and use; knowledge storage, retrieval and use, 
e.g.  production  systems,  expert  systems,  inference  engines;  knowledge 
transfer and exchange. 
5.  Knowledge-based Decision Support Systems 
The  relationship  between  DSS  and  knowledge  management;  a  class  of 
computer-based information systems including knowledge-based systems that 
support  decision-making  activities;  formulating  specific  knowledge  and 
information implementation with reference to the business environment of 
specific organizations for decision making. 
6.  Knowledge Management and Applications 
Knowledge management techniques; strategies for knowledge management; 
chief knowledge officer and chief information officer; enterprise information 
portal framework and application; content management; collaborative portal; 
e-business. 
Laboratory Experiment and Case Study: 
Acquisition, representation, and processing of knowledge and information in case 
studies of real-life systems; use of tools such as Clementine. 
Teaching/  During  the  lecturers,  students  will  come  across  the  concepts,  methods,  and 
Learning  techniques in knowledge and information management, and will be supplemented by 
Methodology  case studies and in-class exercises. Students are required to actively participate in the 
case discussion and the Q&A exercises. 
During the Tutorial and Lab sessions, students will have the opportunity to practice, 
apply, and present what they have learned. They will also be able to share their ideas 
and experience, as well as learn from each other through various course activities. 
Dec 2018  
Assessment 
Specific assessment  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to 
Methods in 
methods/tasks  weighting  be assessed (Please tick as 
Alignment with 
appropriate) 
Intended 
Learning 
a  b  c  d  e 
Outcomes 
Continuous Assessment  55%           
Examination  45%           
Total   100%   
Explanation of the appropriateness of the assessment methods in assessing the 
intended learning outcomes: 
The course will be assessed by class participation, quiz tests, Lab exercises and 
project.   
Class and Lab participation pool ideas and experiences from group, and allows 
everyone to participate in an interactive process. Quiz tests give students chances to 
reflect on learning and experience. Projects are used to develop students’ analytic, 
problem solving and reporting skills.
 
Student Study  Class contact: 
Effort Expected  
  Lecture  39 Hrs. 
  Tutorial/Lab  0 Hrs. 
Other student study effort: 
  Self-learning  41 Hrs. 
  Project(s)  25 Hrs. 
Total student study effort   105 Hrs. 
Reading List  Textbooks: 
and References 
1.  Bali, R. K., Wickramasinghe, N., and Lehaney, B., Knowledge Management 
Primer, Routledge, 2009.  
2.  Turban, E., Aronson, J. E., Liang, T. P., and Sharda, R., Decision Support 
Systems and Intelligent Systems, 9th Edition, Prentice Hall, 2010. 
3.  Sharda,  R.,  Delen,  D.,  Turban,  E.,  Analytics,  Data  Science,  &  Artificial 
Intelligence: Systems for Decision Support, 11th Edition, 2019. 
4.  Hislop, D., Knowledge Management in Organizations: A Critical Introduction, 
Oxford University Press, 2009.  
5.  Zilli, A., Damiani, E., and Ceravolo, P., Semantic Knowledge Management: An 
Ontology-Based Framework, Information Science Reference, 2009.  
6.  Articles on knowledge, information, and decision support systems. 
 
Dec 2018 