 
Subject Description Form 
 
 
Subject Code  COMP4134 
Subject Title  Biometrics and Security 
Credit Value  3 
Level  4 
Nil. 
Pre-requisite      
Objectives    To understand the fundamental issues and technologies for network security, in 
particular the basic technologies for cryptography and various applications 
 
  To introduce biometric computing knowledge and methods 
  To learn some basic biometrics systems with real case studies 
Intended Learning  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Outcomes 
 Professional/academic knowledge and skills 
 
(a) understand fundamental issues and challenges for network security 
(b) get familiar with the basic techniques for cryptography including conventional 
encryption, public-key cryptograph, message authentication, hash functions and 
digital signature  
(c) understand the key issues and importance of biometric systems for security 
concerns; 
(d) recognize physical and behavior biometric characteristics; 
(e) apply biometric technology for different security applications. 
Attributes for all-roundedness 
(f) communicate effectively with project presentation and technical reports; 
(g)  learn  independently  for  problem  solving  and  solution  seeking  for  various 
applications. 
Topic 
Subject Synopsis/ 
Indicative Syllabus  1.  Introduction to information security  
  Why  is  information  security  important?  What  is  information  security 
  concerned? How to achieve information security – basic concepts, techniques 
and applications. 
 
 
 
2.  Conventional encryption technology 
 
  Classic and modern  techniques for encryption, stream ciphers and block 
 
Last update in July 2015 ciphers, DES (Data Encryption Satndard).  
 
3.  Public-key cryptography and message authentication 
     public-key cipher, classes of public-key algorithms, message authentication 
 
4.  Digital watermarking for information security 
     watermarking concept, watermarking definition, problems with watermarking, 
watermark  attacks,  classification  of  watermarking,  applications  of 
watermarking (copyright protection, authentication and integrity checking, 
hidden annotation, secure and invisible communication 
 
5. Introduction to biometrics and authentication 
     Why biometrics? What about biometrics? How to design biometric systems?  
Biometrics  definitions  and  notations;  biometric  applications;  information 
security; security technologies and systems; authentication. 
 
6.  Fundamental techniques  
  Biometrics  data  acquisition  and  biometrics  database;  the  related  image 
processing and pattern recognition technologies, including digital image and 
signal representation, pattern extraction and classification; basic PCA/LDA 
approaches of automated biometrics identification and verification. 
 
7.  Typical physical biometrics 
  Basic  physical  characteristics  of  biometrics;  some  basic  introduction  of 
physical biometrics systems (such as fingerprint, palm-print, finger, hand, 
face, iris, and face etc.). 
 
8.   Typical behavial biometrics 
  Basic  behavial  characteristics  of  biometrics;  some  basic  introduction  of 
behavial  biometrics  systems  (such  as  voice,  signature,  and  gesture 
recognition, etc.). 
 
9.   Multi-biometrics and applications 
  Security  application:  Internet/Intranet;  e-commerce;  banking  services; 
immigration and naturalization service; computer systems; physical access; 
telephone systems; time, attendance and monitoring. 
 
Case Study: 
Network security and biometric applications. 
Teaching/Learning  The course material will be delivered as a combination of lectures, tutorials and 
Methodology   small  group  project.    Students  will  get  familiar  with  basic  concepts  and 
technologies of network security, biometric systems and applications.  
 
Last update in July 2015  
Assessment 
Methods in  Specific  assessment  %  Intended  subject  learning  outcomes to 
Alignment with  methods/tasks   weighting  be assessed (Please tick as appropriate) 
Intended Learning 
a  b  c  d  e  f  g 
Outcomes 
1. Assignments  60%        
 
2. Lab exercises               
3. Project         
4. Mid-term               
5. Examination  40%           
Total   100 %   
 
Student Study  Class contact:   
Effort Expected  
  Lecture  39 Hrs. 
 
  Tutorial    0 Hrs. 
Other student study effort:   
  Homework  25 Hrs. 
  Project   41 Hrs. 
Total student study effort   105 Hrs. 
Reading List and  Reference Books: 
References 
1. Stallings, W. Cryptography and Network Security: Principles and Practice, 
Third Edition, Prentice Hall, 2003. 
2. Zhang, D., Automated Biometrics: Technologies & Systems, Kluwer Publisher, 
2000. 
3. Zhang, D., (Ed.), Biometric Solutions for Authentication in an e-World, Kluwer 
Publisher, 2002. 
4. Jain, et al. (Eds.), Biometrics: Personal Identification in Networked Society, 
Kluwer Publisher, 1999. 
5.  Sid-Ahmed,  M.A.,  Image  Processing,  Theory,  Algorithms,  &  Architectures, 
McGraw-Hill, 1995. 
6. Abrams, M.D., Jajodia, S., and Podell, H.J., Information Security: An Integrated 
Collection of Essays, IEEE Computer Society Press, 1994. 
7. Derek Atkins, et al., Internet Security Professional Reference, Second Edition. 
New Riders Publishing, 1997. 
8. Russell, D., Computer Security Basics, O'Reilly & Associates, 1991. 
9.  Zhang,  D.  and  Jain,  A.K.  (Eds.),  Proc.  First  International  Conference  on 
Biometric Authentication (ICBA), 800pp, Springer Verlag, LNCS 3072, 2004 
10.  Zhang,  D.  and  Jain,  A.K.  (Eds.),  Advances  in  Biometrics,  International 
Conference - ICB2006, Springer Verlag, LNCS 3832, 2006. 
11. IEEE Transaction on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence. 
12. IEEE Transaction on Image Processing. 
 
Last update in July 2015 