Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP4435 
Subject Title  Dependable Computing  
Credit Value  3 
Pre-requisite /   NIL 
Co-requisite/ 
Exclusion 
The objectives of this subject are to: 
Objectives 
1. introduce to students the concept of dependability as a measure of a 
  system’s availability, reliability and maintainability 
2. equip students with knowledge on the measures and techniques to 
improve system dependability 
3. discuss how dependable computing techniques can be applied in 
practical scenarios  
Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Intended Subject 
Learning Outcomes  Professional/Academic Knowledge and Skills 
(1) understand the elements of dependability and why it matters; 
 
(2) understand  how  dependability  of  a system can be assessed or 
measured; 
(3) apply various techniques to improve the dependability of a software 
system; 
Attributes for All-Roundness 
(4) an  ability  to  explain  the  attributes,  threats  and  means  of  an 
information system to a wide range of audience 
Programme  Outcome  3:  This  subject  contributes  to  the  knowledge  of 
Contribution of the 
dependability and fault tolerance necessary to the discipline of information 
Subject to the 
security. 
Attainment of the 
Programme  Programme Outcome 4: This subject allows the students to assess the 
Outcomes  dependability of an information system and to design measures to ensure its 
reliability 
Programme Outcome 9: To analyse the impact of system dependability on 
individuals, organizations and society 
1.  Overview of Dependability  
Subject Synopsis/ 
Notion of dependability, its definition, attributes (availability, reliability, 
Indicative Syllabus 
safety, security, maintainability) and measurements as well as related 
concepts such as errors, faults and hazard 
 
2.  Fault Avoidance and Fault Elimination  
Role of specification (the Z language), programming standards, 
inspection and testing. 
3.  Fault Tolerance  
Fault detection, masking, containment, location, reconfiguration and 
recovery, redundancy 
4.  Secure Issues in E-commerce  
E-commence security breaches, including Internet Fraud and 
Espionage, Secure Electronic Transactions (SET), the iKP protocols 
5.  Advanced Topics  
Dependability evaluation techniques and tools: fault trees, Markov 
chains; fault tolerance in distributed systems; Information Redundancy; 
Risk Analysis, Disaster Recovery, Emergency Management; Security 
Policies, Procedures, Frameworks During the lectures, students will come across the common concepts and 
Teaching/Learning 
theories. Those concepts and theories would be explained with reference to 
Methodology  
case studies.  
In the tutorials, students will be given scenarios related to the area of 
information security where these concepts are relevant.  
 
Assessment Methods 
in Alignment with  Specific  %  Intended Subject Learning 
Intended Subject  Assessment  Weighting  Outcomes to be Assessed 
Learning Outcomes  Methods/Tasks   (Please tick as appropriate) 
 
1  2  3  4       
Continuous  55     
         
Assessment 
Final Examination  45            
 
Types of assessments included assignments, test and examination. 
Assignments are designed to reinforce the concepts and theories learned in 
the lecture and tutorial, by solving bigger problems. Test and examination 
are used to assess independent problem solving and critical thinking skills. 
Student Study Effort  Class contact (time-tabled):   
Expected 
Lecture  39 hours
Other student study effort: 
Assignments, self-study, text and exam preparation  66 hours
105 hours
Total student study effort: 
Reference Books:  
Reading List and 
References  1.  Fundamentals of Dependable Computing for Software Engineers, John 
Knight, Chapman and Hall/CRC, ISBN: 1439862559 
2.  Software  Reliability  Engineering:  More  Reliable  Software  Faster  and 
Cheaper, John D. Musa, Authorhouse, ISBN: 1418493872 
 
 
 