Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP4332 
Subject Title  Mobile Security: Principles and Practice 
Credit Value  3 
Level  4 
Pre-requisite /  Pre-requisite: COMP1011 and COMP2322 and COMP2432/COMP1411 and 
Co-requisite /  COMP3334 
Exclusion 
Objectives  To equip students with a foundational understanding of mobile security and practical 
skills  of  handling  security  issues  in  mobile  communications.  Students  will  be 
  equipped to: 
  describe the concepts and principles of mobile security; 
  understand the security architecture and threat model of mobile networks; 
  explain the security models of popular mobile operating systems, applications, 
and services; 
  analyze the threats to popular mobile operating systems, applications, and 
services; and 
  develop practical skills to detect attacks, to assess the security risk of mobile 
applications and services, and to analyze mobile malware. 
Intended  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Learning 
Outcomes  Professional/academic knowledge and skills 
  (a)  understand the security architectures of cellular networks and WiFi networks 
along with the major threats in mobile communication; 
(b)  explain the security model of the Android system, iOS systems, and their 
applications; 
(c)  analyze Android applications, evaluate the threats to them, and dissect malware; 
and 
(d)  identify major security and privacy issues in popular mobile services and 
applications. 
Attributes for all-roundedness 
(e)  acquire critical thinking and analytical skills, and improve technical writing as 
well as presentation skills. 
Jan 2019  
Subject 
Duration of 
Synopsis/  Topic 
Lectures 
Indicative 
Syllabus  1.  Overview of Mobile Communication and its Security  2 
  Mobile  communication  concepts,    Security  goals,  types  of 
attacks, threat models, and review of basic cryptography. 
2.  Cellular Networks Security  4 
Access control and authentication in cellular networks, 3G/4G 
networks and their security architectures, attacks on 3G/4G 
networks.  
3.  WiFi Network Security   
802.11 protocols, WEP, WPA/WPA2, WiFi network attacks 
and threat assessment. 
4.  Android Security  8 
Android  system,  Android  security  model,  Android  apps 
analysis,  Android  application  reverse  engineering  and 
monitoring, Android apps threat assessment. 
5.  iOS Security  2 
iOS system, iOS security model, iOS application analysis. 
6.  Mobile Malware  4 
Taxonomy  of  mobile  malware,  mobile  malware  detection, 
static analysis of mobile malware, dynamic analysis of mobile 
malware. 
7.  Selected Topics on Mobile Security  4 
Advanced or current topics on mobile security, such as Near 
field communication security, mobile device management and 
BYOD. 
Total  26 
 
Teaching/  The course will be delivered as a combination of lectures, tutorials, labs, workshops, 
Learning  and class project. The course will emphasize on both the principles and practices of 
Methodology   mobile security. The principles will be covered mainly through the lectures and the 
tutorials, whereas the practice aspects will be taught through labs and workshops. 
  The class project will help students reinforce what they have learnt, including both 
principles and practical skills. 
Jan 2019  
Assessment 
Specific assessment  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to be 
Methods in 
methods/tasks  weighting  assessed (Please tick as appropriate) 
Alignment with 
Intended 
a  b  c  d  e 
Learning 
Outcomes 
Continuous           
100% 
Assessment 
 
1. Assignments  25%           
2. Term Project  30%           
3. Examination  45%           
4. Tutorial/Lab             
5. Workshops             
Total   100 %   
Explanation of the appropriateness of the assessment methods in assessing the 
intended learning outcomes:  
Continuous  assessments  consist  of  assignments  and  a  term  project,  which  are 
designed to facilitate students to achieve intended learning outcomes. Despite not 
being  assigned  with  an  assessment  weighting,  lab  exercise  and  workshop  are 
designed  to  encourage  students  to  acquire  deep  understanding  of  the  relevant 
knowledge  
Examination will evaluate student’s understanding and practical skills of security 
issues in mobile communications. 
Student Study  Class contact: 
Effort Expected  
  Lectures  26 Hrs. 
 
  Tutorials/Lab/Workshops  13 Hrs. 
Other student study effort: 
  Assignment and Term Project  40 Hrs. 
  Self-Study and Examination Preparation  39 Hrs. 
Total student study effort   118 Hrs. 
Reading List  Reference Books: 
and References 
1.  Boudriga,  Noureddine,  Security  of  Mobile  Communications,  Auerbach 
Publications, 2010. 
2.  Dubey, Abhishek and Misra, Anmol, Android Security: Attacks and Defenses, 
Auerbach Publications, 2013. 
Jan 2019 3.  Dwivedi,  Himanshu,  Clark,  Chris  and  Thiel,  David,  Mobile  Application 
Security, McGraw-Hill Osborne Media, 2010. 
4.  Miller, Charlie, Blazakis, Dion, DaiZovi, Dino, Esser, Stefan, Iozzo, Vincenzo 
and Weinmann, Ralf-Philipp, iOS Hacker’s Handbook, Wiley, 2012 
5.  Traynor,  Patrick,  McDaniel,  Patrick  and  La  Porta,  Thomas,  Security  for 
Telecommunications Networks, Springer, 2008. 
6.  Kaufman, Charlie, Perlman, Radia and Speciner, Mike, Network Security: 
Private Communication in a Public World, Prentice Hall, 2002. 
7.  Forsberg, Dan, Horn, Günther, Moeller, Wolf-Dietrich and Niemi, Valtteri, LTE 
Security, Wiley, 2012. 
8.  Buttyán,  Levente  and  Hubaux,  Jean-Pierre,  Security  and  Cooperation  in 
Wireless Networks, Cambridge University Press, 2008. 
9.  Proceedings of IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy 
10.  Proceedings of USENIX Security Symposium 
11.  Proceedings of ISOC Network and Distributed System Security Symposium 
12.  Proceedings of ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security 
13.  Proceedings of IEEE/IFIP International Conference on Dependable Systems 
and Networks 
14.  Proceedings of European Symposium on Research in Computer Security 
15.  Proceedings of International Symposium on Research in Attacks, Intrusions and 
Defenses 
16.  Proceedings of Annual Computer Security Applications Conference 
17.  Chell, Dominic, Erasmus, Tyrone, Colley, Shaun and Whitehouse, Ollie, The 
Mobile Application Hacker’s Handbook, 1st Edition, Wiley, 2015. 
 
Jan 2019 