 
Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP4531 
Subject Title  Emerging Topics in FinTech 
Credit Value  3 
Level  4 
Pre-requisite /   
Co-requisite / 
Exclusion 
Objectives  The objective of this subject is to: 
  •  introduce the emerging developments or selected topics in FinTech and their 
implications. The subject covers the current state of the major thematic areas in 
FinTech, including its ecosystem, trends and opportunities; and 
•  fulfill PolyU’s lifelong learning objective, this subject also seeks to develop 
students’ independent learning and critical thinking capabilities using research 
informed teaching and other innovative teaching/learning methods. 
Intended  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Learning 
Outcomes  Professional/academic knowledge and skills 
  (a)  understand how the current states impact the major thematic areas in FinTech; 
(b)  understand and discuss the recent research advances of emerging technologies 
for financial services; 
(c)  evaluate recent financial technologies and their impact on the future of financial 
services; and 
(d)  learn how to learn and to analyze a FinTech-related topic with independent 
learning and critical thinking capabilities. 
Subject  Topics will be selected according to the recent developments in FinTech and may be 
Synopsis/  varied in different offerings of the subject. Some potential topics are illustrated 
Indicative  below.   
Syllabus 
•  Current state of the major thematic areas in the FinTech ecosystem such as 
  infrastructure  (e.g.,  identity,  privacy,  security),  crowdfunding  (e.g.,  types, 
platforms, applications), e-trading (e.g., algorithmic trading), and peer-to-peer 
(P2P) lending. 
•  Trends and opportunities for shaping the FinTech ecosystem. 
•  Trends  in  FinTech  innovation,  including  e-payment,  digital  banking, 
cybersecurity, virtual currency, disruptive financial services, crowdfunding, 
P2P lending and regulatory challenges can influence the short-term and long-
term developments of various industries. 
Dec 2020  
•  Trends in the field of FinTech that will have the most significant impact on the 
future. 
•  Latest development and popular topics in FinTech. 
With research informed teaching and learning approach, students are encouraged to 
progressively  become  active  enquirers,  rather  than  passive  learners  accruing 
knowledge.  
Teaching/  Class activities include lectures, labs and tutorials/seminars (when applicable). In 
Learning  addition  to  the  fundamental  knowledge  and  principles,  classes  cover  the 
Methodology   advanced/particular  topics  based  on  research  informed  teaching  and  learning 
approach.  Students  will  learn  and  experience  parts  of  the  research  process  by 
  studying the selected research articles and exploring new research on the basis of 
their own interests.  
Student groups will present what they learn from their own research studies during 
classes (i.e., using reproducible research or research review and survey). Each class 
will focus more on discussion and problem solving.  
 
Assessment 
Specific assessment  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to 
Methods in 
methods/tasks  weighting  be assessed (Please tick as 
Alignment with 
appropriate) 
Intended 
Learning 
a  b  c  d 
Outcomes 
Continuous Assessment         
 
55% 
1. Assignments, Project 
✓  ✓  ✓  ✓ 
and Quiz 
Examination  45%  ✓  ✓  ✓   
Total   100 %   
Explanation of the appropriateness of the assessment methods in assessing the 
intended learning outcomes: 
Continuous assessments (assignments, project and quiz) are designed to facilitate 
students to achieve the intended learning outcomes. The project is designed to 
enhance students’ ability to a deeper understanding of a problem of a larger-scope 
and solving it systematically. Quizzes are given to ensure the students’ understanding 
of the basic concept and application. 
Examination  will  provide  a  summative  evaluation  of  the  overall  ability  and 
understanding of the students in the topics. 
 
Student Study  Class contact: 
Effort Expected  
▪  Lectures / Tutorials / Labs  39 Hrs. 
 
Other student study effort: 
Dec 2020  
▪  Self-study and class preparation  26 Hrs. 
▪  Assignment, Project, Quiz and Examination  52 Hrs. 
Total student study effort   104 Hrs. 
Reading List  Reference Books: 
and References 
1.  Chishti, Susanne and Barberis, Janos, The FINTECH Book: The Financial 
Technology Handbook for Investors, Entrepreneurs and Visionaries, Wiley, 
2016. 
2.  Schulte, Paul, The Next Revolution in our Credit-Driven Economy: The Advent 
of Financial Technology, Kindle Edition, Wiley, 2015. 
3.  Tavlas, Tolga, Digital Banking Tips: Practical Ideas for Disruptors, Kindle 
Edition, Amazon Digital Services, Inc., 2015. 
4.  Odame,  Paul  and  Jubi,  Gloria,  IT  Financial  Management:  Corporate 
Financing,  IT  Value  Realization  Budgeting  &  Planning,  ITIL  Capacity 
Management, Kindle Edition, FRENIQ BOOKS, 2015. 
5.  Taylor, Kevin C., FinTech Law: A Guide to Technology Law in the Financial 
Services Industry, Bloomberg BNA, 2014. 
6.  Khanna, Ayesha, Straight Through Processing for Financial Services: The 
Complete Guide (Complete Technology Guides for Financial Services), 1st 
Edition, Academic Press, 2007. 
7.  Freedman,  David  M.  and  Nutting,  Matthew  R.,  A  Brief  History  of 
Crowdfunding, Retrieved Nov. 2015. 
8.  Lawton, Kelvin and Marom, Dan, The Crowdfunding Revolution: How to Raise 
Venture Capital Using Social Media, McGraw-Hill, 2013. 
9.  Allen,  Franklin,  McAndrews,  James  and  Strahan,  Philip,  E-Finance:  An 
Introduction, The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania, 2001.  
10.  Dresner, Steven, Crowdfunding: A Guide to Raising Capital on the Internet, 
New Jersey-Wiley, 2014.  
 
Dec 2020 