Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP4442 
Subject Title  Service and Cloud Computing 
Credit Value  3 
Level  4 
Pre-requisite /  Pre-requisite: 2421 Computer Organization & COMP 2432 Operating Systems, or 
Co-requisite /  equivalent subjects 
Exclusion 
 
Objectives  This is a fundamental course that provides students with the foundations of service 
and cloud computing, focusing on software development and applications. It covers 
  the principles and concepts, the technical underpinnings and supporting technologies, 
and the best practices and applications. The objectives of this subject include: 
•  To provide students with a broad view of the theoretical and technological 
aspects that has led to the evolution of service and cloud computing; 
•  To teach students how service and cloud computing supports different forms of 
functionality that are essential to the modern IT industry, and the requirements 
of  working  with  cloud  computing  environments  and  develop  cloud-based 
services and applications; 
•  To  equip  students  with  the  underlying  technologies  of  service  and  cloud 
computing  including  service-oriented  architecture,  cloud  architecture  and 
service models, virtualization, and cloud management; and 
•  To equip students with the knowledge and skills for the planning, design and 
programming  of  cloud  systems  and  software  services  for  real-world 
applications. 
Intended  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Learning 
Outcomes  Professional/academic knowledge and skills 
  (a)  understand  and  appreciate  the  technological  impact  of  service  and  cloud 
computing for future enterprises, and the technologies underpinning it; 
(b)  apply  systematic  and  principled  practices  to  designing,  implementing  and 
deploying service and cloud-oriented computing; and 
(c)  review and assess the risks, opportunities, costs and steps towards migrating 
existing systems to service and cloud computing. 
Attributes for all-roundedness 
(d)  systematic  and  incremental  approach  to  resolving  practical  enterprise 
computing problems and challenges; 
(e)  learn to work effectively as a team member; and 
Dec 2020 (f)  write technical reports and present solutions. 
 
Subject  Topics: 
Synopsis/   
Indicative  1.  Overview 
Syllabus 
The evolution of computing paradigms; Motivations and benefits of service 
and  cloud  computing;  Definitions  and  principles  of  service  and  cloud 
 
computing; Applications of cloud computing. 
2.  Cloud Architecture and Service Models 
Cloud architecture and major components; Physical infrastructure; Service 
models; Service provisioning; 
3.  Service and Cloud Computing Technology Foundation 
Key technologies behind service and cloud computing; Resource sharing, 
scalability,  multi-tenancy,  and  heterogeneity;  Virtualization  and 
Containerization; Cloud computing and service-orientation; Web Services, 
SOA, Web 2.0; Services co-ordination and composition, MSA, Devops, Agile; 
SDN. 
4.  Cloud Service Providers and Platforms 
Services and functions provided by cloud service providers; Representative 
providers and platforms (Amazon, Microsoft, IBM, Google, Alibaba, etc); 
AWS (EC2, S3, CloudFront, composite services, etc); 
5.  Cloud-based Application Development 
Concepts and principles: common cloud use cases; types of cloud services; 
support for cloud application development; principles of building cloud-based 
applications. 
Methods and techniques: general procedure of cloud application development; 
paradigms  of  cloud  applications  (Web,  Mobile,  Content  delivery,  Event-
driven, IoT, Big Data, Machine learning); Case study with AWS. 
6.  Cloud Management 
Functionalities and requirements of cloud management; Core functions of 
cloud management; Platforms and tools for cloud management; Cloud security 
and data privacy. 
 
 
Teaching/  The course is comprised of lectures, tutorials  and laboratory exercises. During 
Learning  lectures, students are taught the important concepts and principles that drive the 
Methodology   development of service computing, and how it connects to cloud. In the lecture, 
students are encouraged to actively participate in mini-discussions and questions that 
  are designed to reinforce their understanding of concepts taught. 
During tutorials, students will be presented with real and practical scenarios of 
enterprise case studies. In particular, they will be given the unique opportunities to 
study, analyze and propose solutions that leverage service and cloud computing 
Dec 2020 concepts. Small group discussions will be encouraged and students will need to 
present their results and solutions in the form of reports and presentations. 
To reinforce practical aspects of their training, simple lab exercises will be conducted 
to expose students to the state-of-the-art tools and development environment that uses 
service and cloud computing as the underlying architecture to provide enterprise 
solutions. 
 
Assessment 
Specific assessment  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to be 
Methods in 
methods/tasks  weighting  assessed (Please tick as appropriate) 
Alignment with 
Intended 
a  b  c  d  e  f 
Learning 
Outcomes 
1. Continuous  55%  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓ 
Assessments 
 
2. Final Examination  45%  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓     
Total   100%   
Explanation of the appropriateness of the assessment methods in assessing the 
intended learning outcomes: 
Students taking the subject will be assessed by performance in two parts: continuous 
assessments  and  examination.  Continuous  assessment  may  include  in-class 
discussions / quizzes, assignments, and tests.  
 
The in-class discussions and quizzes engage students  to  actively participate in 
learning during lectures and tutorials. Students are to collaboratively work together 
to apply what they have learned in the class to solve practical problems. Assignment 
may include group projects that are designed to help students to work together in a 
small group to solve practical case studies and examples by applying concepts that 
are taught in the class. The results are to be presented in the form of reports and 
presentations. Tests and assignments are designed to help students reinforced their 
understanding of concepts and principles that are taught in the class. They are 
conducted to assess independent problem solving and critical thinking skills. 
Student Study  Class contact: 
Effort Expected  
  ▪  Lectures, Tutorials / Labs  39 Hrs. 
Other student study effort: 
▪  Assignments, Projects, Reading and Exam  66 Hrs. 
Total student study effort   105 Hrs. 
Reading List  Reference Books: 
and References 
1.  Chellammal Surianarayanan and Pethuru Raj Chelliah, Essentials of Cloud 
Computing, Springer, 2019. 
2.  Arshdeep Bahga and Vijay Madisetti, Cloud Computing Solutions Architect: A 
Hands-On Approach, Arshdeep Bahga & Vijay Madisetti, 2019. 
Dec 2020 3.  Articles from web, technical journals, and conference proceedings will be 
handed out or posted on L@PU Blackboard when needed. 
 
Dec 2020 