 
Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP4142 
Subject Title  E-Payment and Cryptocurrency 
Credit Value  3 
Level  4 
Pre-requisite /  Pre-requisite: COMP3334 
Co-requisite / 
Exclusion   
Objectives  To understand the technologies and applications for e-payment and cryptocurrency. 
  Specifically, the students should: 
  understand fundamental security technologies for supporting e-payment and 
cryptocurrency; 
  evaluate different types of payment methods; and 
  understand  the  design  and  application  of  e-payment  and  cryptocurrency 
systems. 
Intended  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Learning 
Outcomes  Professional/academic knowledge and skills 
  (a)  acquire a fundamental understanding of cryptocurrency and e-payment – the 
basic principles as well as the technical and business aspects; 
(b)  evaluate cryptocurrency and e-payment systems, applications and protocols; 
and 
(c)  design and implement cryptocurrency and e-payment systems/applications. 
Attributes for all-roundedness 
(d)  follow trends of e-payment and crypto-currency; and 
(e)  build up on team work, presentation and technical writing skills. 
Alignment of  Programme Outcome 1: This subject contributes to having students practice their 
Intended  writing skills with report writing. 
Programme 
Learning  Programme  Outcome  4:  This  subject  contributes  to  developing  student  critical 
Outcomes  thinking through written assignments and a project. 
Programme  Outcome  5:  This  subject  contributes  to  problem  solving  with 
programming skills through lab exercises and a project. 
Programme Outcome 7: This subject contributes to team work with a project for 
students to work in a team. 
Dec 2018  
Programme Outcome 8: This subject contributes to the understanding of FinTech 
through assignments and a project. 
 
Subject 
Topic 
Synopsis/ 
Indicative  1.  Introduction 
Syllabus 
Payment fundamentals; Different types of payment; Regulatory issues. 
 
2.  Security Fundamentals 
Review  of  security  mechanisms  (encryptions,  digital  signatures,  hash 
functions, authentication protocols, digital certificate, Internet security).  
Elliptic curve cryptography (ECDLP, ECDSA); recent hash functions (SHA-
256, RIPEMD-160) 
3.  Internet Payment Systems 
SET and 3D credit card payment protocols; Electronic check; E-cash; Internet 
payment services. 
4.  Mobile Payment Systems 
Smart card payment; Apple Wallet; Google Wallet; Other mobile payment 
systems. 
5.  Cryptocurrency 
Block chain; Bitcoin (ant its variants, e.g. Litecoin); Other crypto-currency 
systems (e.g. Ethereum, Monero, ZCash). 
6.  Related Topics 
Legal issues; Advanced/emerging technologies; Case studies. 
Laboratory Experiments: 
Laboratory exercises on block chain, cryptocurrency and e-payment. 
Case Studies: 
Case studies on block chain, Bitcoin, Internet/mobile payment systems. 
Teaching/  Teaching  is  mainly  conducted  through  lectures.  Learning  is  supplemented  by 
Learning  exercises in labs/tutorials. Students are assessed through assignments, a project, a 
Methodology   mid-term test and an examination. 
Dec 2018  
 
Assessment 
Specific assessment  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to be 
Methods in 
methods/tasks  weighting  assessed (Please tick as appropriate) 
Alignment with 
Intended 
a  b  c  d  e 
Learning 
Outcomes 
Continuous           
Assessment 
 
1. Assignments           
55% 
2. Project           
3. Mid-Term Test           
Examination  45%           
Total   100 %   
Continuous assessments consist of assignments, a project and a mid-term test, which 
are designed to facilitate students to achieve the intended learning outcomes. The 
project is used to assess all learning outcomes. It is designed to enhance students’ 
ability to a deeper understanding of a problem of a larger-scope and solving it 
systematically. Examination will provide a summative evaluation of the overall 
ability and understanding of the subject (i.e., e-payment and cryptocurrency). 
Student Study  Class contact: 
Effort Expected  
    Class activities (lecture, tutorial, laboratory, etc.)  39 Hrs. 
Other student study effort: 
  Self-study and other related work  66 Hrs. 
Total student study effort   105 Hrs. 
Reading List  Reference Books: 
and References 
1.  Narayanan, A., Bonneau, J., Felten, E., Miller, A. and Goldfeder, S., Bitcoin 
and Cryptocurrency Technologies, Princeton University Press, 2016. 
2.  Liébana-Cabanillas, Francisco, Electronic Payment Systems for Competitive 
Advantage in E-Commerce, IGI Global, 2014. 
3.  Nakajima, Masashi, Payment System Technologies and Functions: Innovations 
and Developments, IGI Global, 2011. 
4.  Tapscott, Alex and Tapscott, Don, Blockchain Revolution: How the Technology 
Behind Bitcoin is Changing Money, Business, and the World, Portfolio, 2016. 
5.  Vigna, Paul and Casey, Michael J., The Age of Cryptocurrency: How Bitcoin 
and the Blockchain Are Challenging the Global Economic Order, Picador, 
2016. 
6.  Antonopoulos,  Andreas  M.,  Mastering  Bitcoin:  Unlocking  Digital 
Cryptocurrencies, O’Reilly, 2014. 
Dec 2018  
7.  Chan, H., Lee, R., Dillon, T. and Chang, E., E-Commerce: Fundamentals and 
Applications, John Wiley & Sons, 2001. 
8.  Stallings, W., Cryptography and Network Security: Principles and Practice, 5th 
Edition, Prentice Hall, 2010. 
9.  O’Mahony, D., Peirce, M. A. and Tewari, H., Electronic Payment Systems for 
E-Commerce, 2nd Edition, Artech House 2001. 
 
Dec 2018 