Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP 2222 
Subject Title  Introduction to Human-Computer Interaction Methods 
Credit Value  3 
Level  2  
Pre-requisite/ Co- Nil 
requisite/ Exclusion 
Objectives  The objectives of this subject are: 
1.  To  provide  students  with  a  broad  view  of  both 
theoretical  and  practical  issues  in  human  factors  for 
design of human-computer interfaces. 
2.  To equip students with knowledge and understanding of 
the  nature  of  human  computer  interactions,  human 
characteristics,  computer  system  and  interface 
architecture. 
3.  To  equip  students  with  sound  skills  in  design  and 
evaluation of user interfaces. 
Intended Learning  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Outcomes   
Professional/academic knowledge and skills 
(a) Understand and appreciate the human factors and the 
theoretical  issues  involved  in  human-computer 
interaction design; 
(b) Apply the theoretical design principles to the design and 
evaluation of user interfaces; 
(c) Collect  user  requirements,  design  a  human-computer 
interface according to these requirements, and evaluate 
the design; 
 
Attributes for all-roundedness 
(d) Solve problems by using systematic approaches;  
(e) Solve complex problems in groups;  
(f) Write technical reports and present the findings. 
 
Subject Synopsis/  1.  Nature  of  Human  Computer  Interaction  (HCI). 
Indicative Syllabus  Definitions and importance of HCI; historical context of 
HCI; roles various disciplines play within HCI.  
2.  Evaluation. Role of evaluation; evaluation techniques; 
experiments and benchmarking. 
3.  Human Characteristics. Perception and representation; 
models and limits of human memory; mental models; 
use  of  metaphors;  support  user  aspects  of  language, 
social  and  organizational  aspects;  input  and  output 
devices:  performance  characteristics  (human  and 
system); speech input and output. 4.  Dialogue interactions and formal models. Task analysis 
and predictive modeling; dialogue interaction: types and 
techniques;  multimedia  and  non-graphical  dialogues; 
response  time;  statistical  models  for  describing 
interaction processes. 
5.  Design  guidelines  and  metrics.  User-centered  design 
and task analysis; software engineering design models; 
structural HCI design and envisioning design; standards 
and metrics; guidelines to support design; standards and 
metrics; documentation and on-line information. 
6.  Design of applications. Design rationale; participatory 
design;  user  interface  management  systems;  WWW 
application design. 
Teaching/Learning  Lectures 
Methodology  During  the  lectures,  students  will  come  across  the  common 
concepts,  methods,  and  issues  in  HCI,  and  will  be 
supplemented by mini-cases and in-class exercises. Students are 
required to actively participate in the case discussion and the 
Q&A exercises. 
 
During  the  tutorials,  students  will  have  the  opportunity  to 
practice, apply, and present what they have learned. They will 
also be able to share their ideas and experience, as well as learn 
from each other. 
 
Students  will  learn  not  only  in  the  class  but  also  through 
various coursework activities. 
Assessment Methods in   
Alignment with  Specific Assessment  %  Intended subject 
Intended Learning  Methods/Tasks  weighting  learning 
Outcomes  outcomes to be 
assessed 
a  b  c  d  e  f 
Continuous Assessment  60%  (cid:1)  (cid:1)  (cid:1)  (cid:1)  (cid:1)  (cid:1) 
Final Examination  40%  (cid:1)  (cid:1)  (cid:1)  (cid:1)     
 
Explanation of the appropriateness of the assessment methods 
in assessing the intended learning outcomes: 
The course will be accessed by assignments, projects, and tests. 
Assignments  are  designed  to  reinforce  the  concepts  and 
methods  learned  in  the  class.  Projects  are  used  to  develop 
students’ analytic and problem solving skills. The written part 
of  the  assignments  and  projects  helps  student  develop  their 
organization  and  documentation  skills.  The  oral  part  of  the 
coursework  allows  students  to  present  their  ideas  and 
communicate  effectively  to  the  audience.  Tests  are  used  to assess independent problem solving and critical thinking skills. 
 
Student study effort  Class Contact: 
expected  Lecture  26 hours 
Tutorial/Lab  13 hours 
Other student study effort: 
Assignments, Coursework, Reading, Exams  66 hours 
Total student study effort  105 hours 
Reading list and  Textbook: 
references  B. Shneiderman and C. Plaisant, Designing the User Interface: 
Strategies for Effective Human-Computer Interaction, 5th 
Edition, Addison Wesley, 2010. 
Reference Books: 
1.  Dix, J. Finlay, G. Abowd, and R. Beale, Human-
Computer Interaction, 3rd Edition, Prentice Hall, 2004. 
2.  P.K. Andleigh and K. Thakrar, Multimedia Systems 
Design, Prentice Hall, 1996. 
3.  M.E.S. Morris and R.J. Hinrichs, Web Page Design: A 
Different Multimedia, Prentice Hall, 1996. 
 