Subject Description Form 
Subject Code  COMP 4921 
Subject Title  Final Year Project 
Credit Value  9 
Level  4 
Pre-requisite/ Co- Exclusion: COMP 4911/4912  
requisite/ Exclusion 
Objectives  The objectives of this subject are to: 
1.  provide  a  student  the  opportunities  to  apply  and 
integrate his/her knowledge acquired throughout the 
undergraduate study. 
2.  develop the capabilities of a student in analyzing and 
solving complex and possibly real-case problems. 
3.  train students with skills on systematic development 
and documentation of a significant piece of work. 
Intended Learning  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Outcomes   
Professional/academic knowledge and skills 
(a) conduct literature survey to locate for materials and 
sources relevant to the selected problem area; 
(b) understand  the  materials  obtained  and  connect  the 
materials with the problem to be solved; 
(c) define and specify the problem precisely; 
(d) assimilate  and  apply  the  knowledge  learnt  in 
generating good solutions to the problem; 
(e) think critically the formulation of alternative models 
and  solutions  to  the  problem,  in  the  analysis  of 
approaches to the solution and their implementation; 
(f) evaluate the final outcome in an objective manner; 
 
Attributes for all-roundedness 
(g) improve presentation and communicate skills via oral 
presentation;  
(h) enhance  technical  report  writing  skills  with  proper 
organization of materials; 
(i)  develop  the  ability  to  learn  independently  and  to 
find/integrate  information  from  different  sources 
required in solving real-life problems; 
(j)  manage the project efficiently and effectively through 
the assistance and supervision of the supervisor. 
 
Subject Synopsis/  1.  In-depth study of a topic proposed by the supervisor 
Indicative Syllabus  2.  Proposal writing 
3.  Regular progress checking and reporting 
4.  Project documentation 5.  Presentation and demonstration 
 
Teaching/Learning  The calendar duration of the final year project spreads over 
Methodology  the final year of the curriculum and extends normally from 
September to April. It spans across the academic year for two 
consecutive  semesters.  The  total  student  effort  required  is 
approximately  378  hours  of  supervisor  and/or  project 
members meeting, laboratory work and independent study for 
a  normal  student,  which  includes  the  total  time  spent  on 
literature  search,  background  reading,  fact  finding,  project 
development, report writing, and presentation preparation and 
demonstration. The actual amount of time spent may vary for 
individuals. 
 
Final Year Projects are normally sponsored by academic staff 
of  the  department  or  in  conjunction  with  external 
organizations  or  other  departments  in  the  university. 
However,  a  student  may  propose  a  topic  which  forms  an 
extension of his/her work during industrial placement, or an 
area  of  his/her  own  research  interest  contingent  upon  the 
condition that he/she could find an interested academic staff 
to supervise the project. 
 
Projects  should  be  problem-oriented  and  there  is  no 
restriction to the nature of the problem except that it should 
be relevant to the computing discipline and there must be a 
computing  element  in  the  project.  The  project  could  be 
practical,  academic  or  a  hybrid  in  which  the  student  is 
encouraged  but  not  constrained  to  have  some  original 
contributions. The student has to submit a proposal, a mid-
term checkpoint progress report and a final report throughout 
the academic year. The proposal must be approved by the 
supervisor before the student can proceed to the final year 
project.  A  rejected  proposal  must  be  rewritten  and 
resubmitted.  An  oral  presentation  and  demonstration  is 
essential at the end of the project. If deemed appropriate, mid-
term presentation may be held. 
 
At or before the beginning of the academic year, each student 
will be assigned a supervisor who is in charge of the entire 
project. The assignment of supervisor normally follows a set 
of prescribed procedures, announced a few months before the 
academic year. The supervisor is responsible for assessing the 
student  based  on  the  set  of  abilities,  as  laid  down  in  the 
“objectives” and “intended learning outcome” sections above, 
that the student demonstrated. Assessment Methods in   
Alignment with  Specific  %  Intended  subject  learning 
Intended Learning  Assessment  weighting  outcomes to be assessed 
Outcomes  Methods/Tasks  a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j 
Continuous  100            
Assessment 
 
Explanation of the appropriateness of the assessment methods 
in assessing the intended learning outcomes: 
The final year project will be accessed by the supervisor, a 
co-examiner and a moderator. The three of them should give 
their assessment independently. The weighting of supervisor 
would be 60% of the total grade, while both co-examiner and 
moderator would each contribute to 20% of the total grade. 
Attributes to be assessed include, but not limited to, Problem 
Identification,  Problem  Solving,  Communication  and 
Presentation,  Project  Management  and  Self-Discipline.  For 
instance, Team Work would be assessed in the context of a 
group-based project. 
 
Additional moderation might be required on the projects. This 
could take the form of a judging (and arbitration) panel to 
consider all projects with high and low grades for fairness and 
quality assurance for their final grades, and to recommend 
best project award candidates. The panel also helps to resolve 
any  disagreement  between  supervisor,  co-examiner  and 
moderator. Some other projects may also be moderated so as 
to even out any undue differences. 
 
Student study effort  Class Contact: 
expected  Lecture  0 hours 
Other student study effort: 
Searching and reading materials, meeting with  378 hours 
supervisor  /  other  students,  design,  program 
development,  testing,  documentation, 
presentation etc. 
Total student study effort  378 hours 
Reading list and  Reference Books: 
references  1.  Kumar, R. Research Methodology: A Step-by-step Guide 
for Beginners, Third Edition, SAGE Publications, 2011. 
2.  Burns,  R.B.  Introduction  to  Research  Methods,  Fourth 
Edition, SAGE Publications, 2000. 
3.  Roberts, C.M. The Dissertation Journey: A Practical and 
Comprehensive  Guide  to  Planning,  Writing,  and 
Defending  Your  Dissertation,  Third  Edition,  Corwin Press, 2007. 
4.  Mauch, J.E., Park, N. Guide to the Successful Thesis and 
Dissertation: A Handbook for Students and Faculty, Fifth 
Edition, Marcel Dekker, 2003. 
5.  Rudestam,  K.E.,  Newton,  R.R.  Surviving  Your 
Dissertation:  A  Comprehensive  Guide  to  Content  and 
Process, Second Edition, Sage Publications, 2001. 
6.  Garson, G.D. Guide to Writing Empirical Papers, Theses 
and Dissertations, Marcel Dekker, 2002. 
7.  Oshima, A. Writing Academic English, Fourth Edition, 
Pearson Longman, 2006. 
8.  APA. Publication Manual of The American Psychological 
Association,  Sixth  Edition,  American  Psychological 
Association, 2010. 
9.  Szuchman,  L.T.  Writing  with  Style:  APA  Style  Made 
Easy, Fifth Edition, Wadsworth/Cengage Learning, 2011. 
10. Statistics, simulation, programming, and relevant books. 
11. ACM and IEEE magazines, Transactions and Journals. 
12. Other International Journals. 
13. Relevant  conference  proceedings  and  magazines 
(including ACM and IEEE conferences). 
14. Technical reports from universities and major companies. 
 