Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP2011 
Subject Title  Data Structures 
Credit Value  3 
Level  2 
Pre-requisite /  Pre-requisite: COMP1011 
Co-requisite / 
Exclusion 
Objectives  The objectives of this subject are to: 
  introduce students to basic concepts of data structures and algorithms; and 
  teach students to apply simple data structures and algorithms in developing 
computer programs. 
Intended  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Learning 
Outcomes  (a)  understand the properties of basic data structures; 
(b)  identify the strengths and weaknesses of different data structures; 
(c)  possess the knowledge of various common algorithms; 
(d)  design and employ appropriate data structures and algorithms for developing 
computer applications; and 
(e)  think critically for improvement in the solutions. 
 
Subject 
Topic 
Synopsis/ 
Indicative  1.  Programming and Algorithms 
Syllabus 
Computer algorithms; types of algorithms; data structures; and abstract data 
types. 
2.  Data Structures: Representation and Algorithms 
Linear structures: linked-lists, stacks, queues; tree structures: binary trees, 
balanced trees, tree traversals; and other common data structures: priority 
queues, heaps. 
3.  Sorting 
Basic  sorting  algorithms:  bubble  sort,  insertion  sort,  selection  sort;  and 
advanced sorting algorithms: quicksort, mergesort, heapsort. 
4.  Searching 
Common  searching  algorithms:  sequential  search,  binary  search;  and 
advanced searching algorithms: tree search, dictionary and hashing. 
Dec 2018 5.  Applications 
Practical program development using combination of various data structures 
and algorithms, e.g., friends-book; and efficiency of the various approaches. 
 
Teaching/  The course material will be delivered as a combination of mass lectures and small 
Learning  group supervised tutorial and laboratory sessions. Lectures will provide the required 
Methodology  knowledge while tutorials and laboratory sessions allow students to acquire hands-
on experience on programming with different algorithms. Programming project 
provides students with a chance to integrate their knowledge on applying appropriate 
data structures and algorithms to solve practical problems. 
 
Assessment 
Specific assessment  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to 
Methods in 
methods/tasks  weighting  be assessed (Please tick as 
Alignment with 
appropriate) 
Intended 
Learning 
a  b  c  d  e 
Outcomes 
Continuous Assessment  60%           
1. Laboratory Exercises  20%           
2. Programming Project  20%           
3. Test  20%           
Examination  40%           
Total   100%   
 
Student Study  Class contact: 
Effort Expected  
  Lecture  39 Hrs. 
  Tutorial/Lab  13 Hrs. 
Other student study effort: 
  Assignments, Quizzes, Projects, Self-study  55 Hrs. 
Total student study effort   107 Hrs. 
Reading List  Reference Books: 
and References 
1.  Goodrich, Michael T., Tamassia, Roberto, and Goldwasser, Michael H., Data 
Structures and Algorithms in Java, 6th Edition, Wiley, 2014. 
2.  Sedgewick,  Robert  and  Wayne,  Kevin,  Algorithms,  4th  Edition,  Addison-
Wesley, 2011. 
3.  Cormen, Thomas H.,  Leiserson, Charles E., Rivest, Ronald  L. and Stein, 
Clifford, Introduction to Algorithms, 3rd Edition, MIT Press, 2009. 
 
Dec 2018 