Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP4146 
Subject Title  Computational Finance 
Credit Value  3 
Level  4 
Pre-requisite /   Nil 
Co-requisite / 
Exclusion 
Objectives  The objectives of this subject are to: 
  •  introduce  the  knowledge  of  financial  models,  quantitative  methods  and 
computational analysis techniques; and 
•  demonstrate the methodologies for financial simulation and evaluation. 
Intended  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Learning 
Outcomes  Professional/academic knowledge and skills 
  (a)  understand the fundamental concepts of financial engineering; 
(b)  be aware of the computational tools for finance; 
(c)  make reasonable judgment in choosing suitable computation model to solve 
problems in finance; and 
(d)  perform financial simulation and analysis. 
Attributes for all-roundedness 
(e)  develop skills in problem solving using systematic approaches; and 
(f)  solve complex problems in groups and develop group work. 
 
Subject 
Topic 
Synopsis/ 
Indicative  1.  Introduction to Finance 
Syllabus 
Money, distribution of money, present value analysis, fundamental analysis, 
WACC. 
 
2.  Computational Techniques for Financial Problems 
Prediction/forecasting; classification; technical analysis; discounted cash flow 
analysis valuation. 
3.  Portfolio Theory and Optimization 
Portfolio  return  and  risk,  2  and  N  assets  portfolio  analysis,  portfolio 
optimization, Sharpe ratio, expected utility. 
Dec 2020 4.  Introduction to Financial Options 
Derivative;  foreign  exchange;  random  walks  and  Markov  processes;  Ito’s 
lemma; Black-Sholes equations; hedging. 
5.  Computational Tools for Financial Options 
European/American  Option  valuation;  Binomial  trees;  CRR  parameter 
matching; Greek Letters; Monte Carlo simulation. 
6.  Case Study 
Customer credit risk analysis; foreign exchange forecast, etc. 
 
Case Study: may involve lecture/tutorial/paper-reading/discussion on topics stipulated 
by the subject lecturer. 
Teaching/  Teaching is based on lectures in which ethical issues of finance are presented. Lectures 
Learning  include solving technical problems in computational finance. Tutorials are used to 
Methodology   provide examples of problems and to show how solutions are developed. There is a 
project that students need to write their report. The project is typically done by a group 
  of students. 
 
Assessment 
Specific assessment  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to be 
Methods in 
methods/tasks  weighting  assessed (Please tick as appropriate) 
Alignment 
with Intended 
a  b  c  d  e  f 
Learning 
Outcomes 
1. Project    ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓ 
 
2. Mid-term/Quizzes  55%  ✓    ✓  ✓     
3. Examination  45%  ✓    ✓  ✓     
Total   100%   
Explanation  of  the  appropriateness  of  the  assessment  methods  in  assessing  the 
intended learning outcomes: 
The project is suitable to assess all the intended learning outcomes as it involves all of 
them. The mid-term/quizzes and examination will test the fundamental concepts learnt 
by the students as well as to see if the students are capable to perform financial 
simulation and analysis. 
Student Study  Class contact: 
Effort 
Expected   ▪  Lectures  33 Hrs. 
 
▪  Tutorials  6 Hrs. 
Other student study effort: 
▪  Project  27 Hrs. 
▪  Self-Study  39 Hrs. 
Dec 2020 Total student study effort   105 Hrs. 
Reading List  Reference Books: 
and References 
1.  Kosowski, Robert L. and Neftci, Salih N., Principles of Financial Engineering, 
3rd Edition, Academic Press, 2015. 
2.  Seydel, Rudiger, Tools for Computational Finance, 6th Edition, Springer-Verlag, 
2017. 
3.  Ugur, Omur, An Introduction to Computational Finance, Imperial College Press, 
London, 2009. 
4.  Levy,  George,  Computational  Finance:  Numerical  Methods  for  Pricing 
Financial Instruments, Elsevier, 2004. 
5.  Levy, Moshe, Levy, Haim and Solomon, Sorin, Microscopic Simulation of 
Financial Markets, Academic Press, 2003. 
6.  Hull, Hohn C., Options, Futures, and Other Derivatives, 9th Edition, Prentice 
Hall, 2015. 
7.  McKinney, Wes, Python for Data Analysis, 2nd Edition, O’Reilly, 2017. 
 
Dec 2020 