SUBJECT DESCRIPTION FORM 
 
 
Subject Title: Industrial Placement             Subject Code: COMP 4000 
 
Number of Credits: 24 Training Credits    Hours Assigned: 48 weeks industrial training 
 
 
Pre-requisite: Nil    Co-requisite: Nil     Exclusion: Nil 
 
 
Objectives: 
 
  To provide the opportunity for students, companies and the University to interact; this 
interaction brings about a unique learning environment not available on campus. 
  To let students gain experience by practicing techniques acquired in the classroom, 
such as system analysis, design, implementation, testing and/or maintenance. 
  To let students learn how to interact effectively, efficiently and professionally with 
others. 
 
Student Learning Outcomes: 
 
After taking this subject, the students should be able to: 
Professional/academic knowledge and skills 
(1) relate academic principles to social and technical environments; 
(2) gain knowledge, confidence, and maturity, which help complete the final year more 
successfully; 
(3) gain better understanding of computing practices so that better choices of electives 
and final year projects can be decided; 
 
Attributes for all-roundedness 
(4) build up a good degree of understanding of business practice which is usually not 
available in the campus; 
(5) apply those principles learnt in the classroom to real-life problems; 
(6) improve interpersonal and communication skills. 
 
 
Alignment of Programme Outcomes: 
 
Programme Outcome 1: This subject contributes to this outcome through placement with 
a company. 
Programme Outcome 4: This subject contributes to this outcome through placement with 
a company. 
Programme Outcome 5: This subject contributes to this outcome through placement with 
a company. 
Programme Outcome 6: This subject contributes to this outcome through placement with a company. 
Programme Outcome 7: This subject contributes to this outcome through placement with 
a company. 
 
 
Placement Procedure: 
 
The detailed placement procedures are contained in a separate document prepared by the 
Department, and its essence includes: 
 
(1)  solicitation of suitable placement places by the Department; 
(2)  helping students to arrange job interviews;   
(3)  helping students to confirm placement offers with contracts.   
  
Prior to the industrial placement students are counselled, and a set of relevant documents 
on placement procedures will be provided. Normally, students should complete certain 
requirements on the skill sets (please refer to the  Definitive Programme Document) 
before they can opt for placement. 
 
During placement the Department assigns an academic staff as the WIE (Work-Integrated 
Education) supervisor for each student. The WIE supervisor is encouraged to visit the 
students within the first two months of the placement period. The purpose is to help the 
placed student whenever possible, and to liaise with the company to settle with any early 
problem detected. 
 
The learning outcomes by the student should be specified in an agreement form, which 
upon endorsement by the Department, will be used as an evaluation yardstick against the 
student during the placement. Students must submit a written report detailing his/her 
achievement during the placement period, with a reflection on the learning outcomes 
attained. 
 
 
Method of Assessment: 
 
Assessment of student placements are based on the following: 
 
(1) continuous assessment by the tutor through site visits, and by the company; 
(2) final placement report submitted by the student when placement has ended. 
 
The final assessment of a placement report is either pass or fail, with respect to the two 
items above. It carries 24 training credits, and the credits do not count towards the 
academic credits for graduation, nor do they contribute to the GPA calculation. 
 
Under normal situations, a failing grade may be awarded when the student does not 
complete the required placement duration, or performs poorly during placement, in not 
achieving the agreed learning outcomes.  
 
Method of Assessment for Learning Outcomes: 
 
Assessment method /  % weighting  Intended subject learning outcomes to be 
task  assessed (Please check as appropriate) 
1  2  3  4  5  6       
Assignments  N/A                   
Lab exercises  N/A                   
Project  N/A                   
Mid-term  N/A                   
Examination  N/A                   
Total  100   
 