Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP3531 
Subject Title  IT Entrepreneurship 
Credit Value  3 
Level  3 
Pre-requisite /   
Co-requisite / 
Exclusion 
Objectives  The subject aims at equipping students with the latest knowledge and skills to: 
  understand basic elements of starting a new business in information technology; 
  prepare a business plan; 
  arrange financial support, accounting and legal requirements; and 
  plan entry and exit strategies. 
Intended  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Learning 
Outcomes  Professional/academic knowledge and skills 
(a)  understand  why  entrepreneurship  is  an  important  business  strategy  in 
information technology; 
(b)  become  familiar  of  the  entrepreneurship  process  and  know  different 
entrepreneurial skills; 
(c)  develop  a  business  plan  and  make  informed  decisions  when  they  see 
opportunities to start an IT company; 
(d)  manage the operations, laws, accounting, finance and marketing of running an 
IT company; and 
(e)  formulate strategies for entry and exit of the IT business. 
Attributes for all-roundedness 
(f)  select setting up a company when there is an opportunity and run it to success 
or join such a company when there is a reasonable chance that it succeeds later 
using entrepreneurial skills; 
(g)  gather information independently to write and present business plans to seek 
investors; and 
(h)  solve complex problems critically and creatively and develop group work 
directly and indirectly.  
Dec 2018  
Subject 
Topic 
Synopsis/ 
Indicative  1.  Introduction to IT Entrepreneurship 
Syllabus 
Introduction  to  entrepreneurship;  reasons  for  engineering,  science,  and 
humanities (i.e. non-MBA) students to study entrepreneurship. 
2.  Unfair Advantage 
High-tech start up; entrepreneurial experience; tools; techniques. 
3.  Business Plan 1: From Idea to Opportunity 
Entrepreneurial opportunity; identification of major risks in each of these 
categories: technology, market, team, and financial; customer development. 
4.   Entrepreneurial Marketing and Sales 
Difficulties  of  marketing  in  a  start-up;  product  development  and  sales 
functions;  discontinuous  innovation;  disruptive  technology;  market 
segmentation, targeting and positioning. 
5.  Business Models and Legal Essentials 
Intellectual property (IP): patents, copyrights, trade secrets and trademarks; 
government regulation; industries requirements; other legal matters. 
6.   Business Plan 2: Introduction to Venture Resources 
Business plan; risks; fund raising; venture capitalists; structure of a typical 
venture capital firm. 
7.  Financings 
Staged financings; high potential opportunity; factors in considering when 
deciding on the proposed venture capital deal. 
8.  Social Entrepreneurship 
Social entrepreneurship different from the other kinds of entrepreneurship; 
types of social entrepreneurship; social venture vs. for-profit start-up. 
9.  Stock Options 
Equity shares; ownership; cost of the stock options; compensation; motivation. 
10. Guest Lectures 
Entrepreneur / finance issues; venture capitalists; IT management;  marketing 
/ technology issues. 
Tutorials: 
Topic 
1.  Accounting and Case Method Workshop 
2.  Building the Start-up Team 
3.  Business Plan 
4.  Venture Finance Workshop 
 
Dec 2018 Teaching/  This subject consists mainly of class lectures and tutorials. For the class lectures, 
Learning  various cases will be presented to help student understand why entrepreneurship is 
Methodology  an important business strategy in information technology. Students will be given time 
to participate in discussions when the cases are presented. 
Students will work in teams on the business plans. They are expected to learn 
independently and work collaboratively, as they will be given chances to provide 
feedbacks to other teams. In the end of the business plan projects, they are expected 
to  also  practice  their  oral  skills  and  writing  skills  through  elevator  pitches, 
presentations and written business plans. 
During tutorial sessions, students will be given chances to discuss case studies, 
brainstorm business plans and presenting materials. Students are expected to develop 
creative thinking and critical thinking by brainstorming the ideas and judging other 
students’ ideas. 
 
Assessment 
Specific assessment  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to be 
Methods in 
methods/tasks  weighting  assessed (Please tick as appropriate) 
Alignment with 
Intended 
a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h 
Learning 
Outcomes 
Continuous                 
65% 
Assessment 
1. Business Plan  40%                 
2. Presentation  15%                 
3. Book Report  10%                 
Examination  35%                 
Total   100%   
Explanation of the appropriateness of the assessment methods in assessing the 
intended learning outcomes: 
The assessment consists of a written business plan, a written book report, an oral 
presentation and an examination. Each student is expected a form a 2-to-4-person 
team to create a business plan based on an idea that has commercial potential or 
impacts  the  society.  Specifications  of  the  business  plan  will  be  given  at  the 
appropriate time in class. Students will learn through the case studies and group 
discussions. One student of the team will be given 2 to 3 minutes to make an elevator 
pitch of the business plan in class and the feedback from the class will be used to 
grade the plan while the other students of the team gives the final presentation in 
front of a panel during the final exam period. Each student will be given a form to 
evaluate other students' elevator pitches in class. Marks will be given to students 
providing valid feedbacks. The final presentation team score is the average of the 
three scores. They are expected to learn among themselves and independently to 
write  business  plan,  give  oral  presentation  and  provide  feedbacks  and 
recommendations to other students in a sense that how IT entrepreneurship flourishes 
commercial potential and impacts the society. For the book reports, each student is 
expected to read at least one book from a given list. The book report will contain 3 
to 4 items, each of which represents one of top things the student found most 
Dec 2018 inspiring and interesting while reading the book. Students are expected to practice 
their reading skills and writing skills from the recommended book reading and report 
writing.  They  will  learn  to  develop  critical  thinking,  creative  thinking  and 
entrepreneurial thinking. The examination will be held in class which is a closed 
book but opened PC exam. It is based on the concepts of IT entrepreneurship and 
what students have learnt from each of the guest speakers in the lectures. They will 
learn to apply the concepts, theories and experiences of the lectures, business plans 
and book reports.
 
Student Study  Class contact: 
Effort Expected  
  Lecture  39 Hrs. 
  Tutorial/Lab  0 Hrs. 
Other student study effort: 
  Business Plan  35 Hrs. 
  Presentation  15 Hrs. 
  Book Report  20 Hrs. 
Total student study effort   109 Hrs. 
Reading List  Reference Books: 
and References 
1.  Kuratko, Donald D., Entrepreneurship: Theory, Process, and Practice, 10th 
Edition, Cengage, 2017. 
2.  Mollick, Ethan,  Entrepreneurship Simulation: The Startup Game, Harvard 
Business Review. 
3.  Halt Jr., G.B., Donch Jr., J.C., Stiles, A.R. and Fesnak, R., Intellectual Property 
in Consumer Electronics, Software and Technology Startups, Springer, 2014. 
4.  Ideabook, by GoVenture 
(http://www.goventure.net/products/AboutIdeabook.aspx) 
 
Dec 2018 