 
Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP4334 
Subject Title  Principles and Practice of Internet Security 
Credit Value  3 
Level  4 
Pre-requisite /  Pre-requisite: COMP3334 
Co-requisite / 
Exclusion   
Objectives  To equip students with a foundational understanding of the threats to the Internet 
infrastructure. Students will be equipped to: 
 
  understand  the  practical  principles,  models,  cryptographic  methods  for 
protecting Internet from various forms of attacks; 
  understand the major security issues and problems in the TCP/IP protocol suite 
and the lower layers, and the countermeasures to mitigate the corresponding 
attacks; and 
  acquire practical skills in using various tools and resources to analyze the 
security of Internet protocols. 
Intended  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Learning 
Outcomes  Professional/academic knowledge and skills 
  (a)  acquire a foundational understanding of the three cryptographic primitives: 
secret-key encryption, public-key encryption, and one-way hash functions; 
(b)  understand the major security issues in implementing the four major security 
functions:  secrecy,  identity  authentication,  message  authentication,  and 
nonrepudiation; 
(c)  understand the major security issues and problems in the TCP/IP protocol suite 
and the lower layers, and the countermeasures to mitigate the corresponding 
attacks; 
(d)  acquire practical skills, such as setting up a secure private network using 
firewalls, secure tunnels, and end-to-end secure applications, implementing 
and/or integrating security functions, and assessment of system security; and 
(e)  understand the major threats to the Internet-wide security today, such as denial-
of-service attacks and DNS insecurity. 
Attributes for all-roundedness 
(f)  acquire critical and independent analytical skills in the process of analyzing the 
security problems in the Internet; and 
Dec 2018  
(g)  acquire the skill of synthesizing various security problems into a small set of 
fundamental security issues and solutions. 
 
Subject 
Topic 
Synopsis/ 
Indicative  1.  Overview 
Syllabus 
Types of attacks; threat models; the role of cryptography in network security. 
 
2.  Cryptographic Functions and Services 
Symmetric encryption, block cipher; hash functions; message authentication 
codes; public-key encryption, digital signatures, and authentication protocols. 
3.  IP and Link-Layer Security 
IP security and Internet key exchange protocols; routing security; wireless 
network security. 
4.  End-to-End Security 
TCP security; Secure Socket Layer; examples of secure application protocols; 
e.g., Secure Shell, Kerberos, and Pretty Good Privacy. 
5.  Other Topics 
DNS  security,  denial-of-service  attacks,  botnet,  firewalls  and  intrusion 
detection/prevention systems. 
Workshops: 
A series of workshops on Web security will be given to let students acquire practical 
experience. 
Teaching/  The course will emphasize on both the principles and practices of network and system 
Learning  security. The principles will be covered mainly through the lectures and problem-
Methodology   solving activities in the tutorials, whereas the practice aspects will be taught through 
a series of workshops on Web security which are designed to reinforce what has been 
  taught in the lectures and to help students acquire practical skills and group projects. 
 
Assessment 
Specific assessment  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to be 
Methods in 
methods/tasks  weighting  assessed (Please tick as appropriate) 
Alignment with 
Intended 
a  b  c  d  e  f  g 
Learning 
Outcomes 
Continuous 
60%               
Assessment 
 
1. Assignments  25%               
2. Workshops  10%               
3. Project  25%               
Examination  40%               
Total   100 %   
Dec 2018  
The  examination  and  assignments  are  designed  to  evaluate  the  students’ 
understanding on the principles undergirding the network and system security. The 
workshops on Web security and group projects, on the other hand, are designed to 
evaluate the students’ practical skills on solving Internet security problems. 
Student Study  Class contact: 
Effort Expected  
    Lectures  39 Hrs. 
  Tutorials/Workshops  0 Hrs. 
Other student study effort: 
  Self-study (around 7 hours per week)  94 Hrs. 
Total student study effort   133 Hrs. 
Reading List  Textbooks: 
and References 
1.  Stallings, William, Cryptography and Network Security: Principles and 
Practice, 6th Edition, Pearson, 2013. 
Reference Books: 
1.  Anderson, Ross J., Security Engineering, 2nd Edition, Wiley, 2008. 
2.  Kaufman, Charlie, Perlman, Radia and Speciner, Mike, Network Security: 
Private Communication in a Public World, 2nd Edition, Prentice Hall PTR 2003. 
3.  Zwicky, Elizabeth D., Cooper, Simon and Chapman, D. Brent, Building Internet 
Firewalls, 2nd Edition, O’Reilly & Associates, 2000. 
4.  Cheswick, William and Bellovin, Steven M., Firewalls and Internet Security, 
2nd Edition, Addison Wesley, 2003. 
5.  Schneier, Bruce, Applied Cryptography, 2nd Edition, Wiley, 1996. 
6.  Schneier, Bruce, Secrets and Lies, Wiley, 2000. 
7.  Young, Adam and Yung, Moti, Malicious Cryptography, Wiley, 2004. 
8.  Stinson, Douglas R., Cryptography: Theory and Practice, 3rd Edition, Chapman 
and Hall/CRC, 2006. 
9.  Forouzan, Behrouz A., Cryptography and Network Security, McGraw-Hill, 
2008. 
10.  Boyd,  Colin  and  Mathuria,  Anish,  Protocols  for  Authentication  and  Key 
Establishment, Springer, 2003. 
 
Dec 2018 