 
Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP4441 
Subject Title  Enterprise Middleware and Applications 
Credit Value  3 
Level  4 
Pre-requisite /      Pre-requisite: COMP1011 
Co-requisite/ 
Exclusion   
 The objectives of this subject are to: 
Objectives 
1. To present an integrated view of the basic building blocks of a distributed 
  system and how middleware can help developers to more easily satisfy the 
requirements of building distributed systems and the importance to enterprise 
systems integration. 
2. To provide the foundation knowledge of middleware, with special focus on 
object-oriented, publish-subscribe and service-oriented middleware. 
3. To provide practical perspectives on how these middleware may be applied 
to enterprise systems and various application domains. 
Intended Learning  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Outcomes 
Professional/academic knowledge and skills 
  (a) understand the basic structure of distributed systems; 
(b) understand the motivation of using middleware; 
(c) understand the basic theories underlying the design of middleware; 
(d) understand the basic concepts of various middleware architectures and their 
role in facilitating systems integration and distributed computing; 
(e) learn to make judgment in choosing a suitable middleware for application 
problems; 
 Attributes for all-roundedness 
(f) apply the technical knowledge learned to solve real-life practical problems; 
(g) appreciate and evaluate existing and new technologies. 
1.  Principles of middleware 
Subject Synopsis/ 
  Role of middleware in distributed systems; types of middleware; developing 
Indicative Syllabus 
distributed systems with middleware. 
2.  Middleware Architectures 
 
  Cross-platform  integration  challenges,  opportunities  and  inhibitors; 
Middleware architecture, technologies and development; Transactional and 
Messaging  middleware;  Object-oriented  middleware;  publish-subscribe 
Last update in July 2014 middleware; service-oriented middleware;  
3.  Middleware for System Integration 
  Enterprise  application  integration  challenges  and  the  importance  of 
middleware solution; data integration; process integration; service-oriented 
integration;  
4.  Data-oriented Middleware 
  Data  and  content  integration  challenges;  XML  content-based  routing; 
enterprise database middleware from major vendors; emerging web services 
enabled database middleware; 
5.  Middleware for Mobile Computing  
Issues and challenges of mobile computing and how middleware plays a role; 
data and computing adaptation; context-aware middleware; 
6.  Middleware Performance 
  Performance considerations of various middleware platforms; performance 
versus  agility  ;  traffic  performance;  service  levels;  quality-of-service 
provision; 
Teaching/Learning  1. Lecture: students learn the technologies and concepts related to middleware. 
Methodology  
2. Laboratory session: students implement short programs (with guidance of 
  the tutor) related to the lecture to gain experience in using the technologies and 
concepts learned.  
Assessment Methods   
in Alignment with 
Intended Learning  Specific assessment  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to be 
methods/tasks   weighting  assessed (Please tick as appropriate) 
Outcomes 
a  b  c  d  e  f  g 
 
Continuous  55%               
assessment 
Assignments  30%               
Mid-term test  25%               
Examination  45%               
Total  100 % 
 
Explanation of the appropriateness of the assessment methods in assessing the 
intended learning outcomes: 
Continuous assessment includes programming assignments and one mid-term test. For 
the  programming  assignments,  the  students  have  to  design  and  implement 
middleware-based systems to solve common problems in distributed systems study. 
This requires good understanding/application of distributed systems concepts and 
programming skills/techniques to solve real problems. 
The mid-term test and the examination aim at assessing the students’ understanding of 
the concepts related to the theory and practice of middleware and distributed systems. 
 
Last update in July 2014 Student Study  Class contact:   
Effort Expected  
    Lecture  39 Hrs. 
  Tutorial/Lab  0 Hrs. 
Other student study effort:   
  Self-study (e.g., reading reference 
66 Hrs. 
books/papers), assignments, projects etc 
Total student study effort   105 Hrs. 
Reading List and  Reference Books: 
References 
1.  A. Puder, K. Romer and F. Pilhofer. Distributed Systems Architecture: A 
Middleware Approach, Morgan Kaufmann, 2006. 
2.  M. Volter, M. Kircher and U. Zdun. Remoting Patterns: Foundations of 
Enterprise, Internet and Realtime Distributed Object Middleware, Wiley. 
2005. 
3.  W. Emmerich, Engineering Distributed Objects, Wiley, 2000. 
4.  IEEE Distributed Systems Online. 
5.  Articles from journals, magazines, and conference proceedings, including 
ACM  TOCS,  IEEE  TPDS,  IEEE  TSE,  IEEE  TOC,  CACM,  IEEE 
Computer, ICDE, DOA. 
 
  
Last update in July 2014 