 
Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP3421 
Subject Title  Web Application Design and Development 
Credit Value  3 
Level  3 
Pre-requisite /  Pre-requisite: COMP1011 
Co-requisite / 
Exclusion   
Objectives  The objectives of this subject are to: 
    highlight the impact of Web in facilitating a truly distributed, wide area and 
highly accessible computing environment; 
  equip students with the ability to analyze, design and implement techniques 
required to develop for the Web and Internet based business applications; and 
  review state-of-the-art technologies such as distributed client/server computing 
paradigm,  middleware  concepts  and  architecture,  web-based  client/server 
computing technologies, XML, wireless and intelligent Internet computing. 
Intended  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Learning 
Outcomes  Professional/academic knowledge and skills 
  (a)  identify different components of distributed client/server on Web and Internet 
computing; 
(b)  understand the basic concepts of Web services and related technologies; 
(c)  be proficient in client-side as well as server programming with related Web 
development tools, such as Ajax and GoogleApps; 
(d)  design, develop and implement interactive Web applications; 
(e)  identify  different  components  of  XML  and  its  related  standards  and 
technologies; and 
(f)  understand latest and future Web technology, including wireless and intelligent 
Internet computing. 
Attributes for all-roundedness 
(g)  communicate  effectively  in  project  /  system  presentation  and  technical 
documents / reports; 
(h)  learn independently for problem solving and solution seeking; 
(i)  collaborate with other team members for project design and development, while 
exhibiting leadership in a project team whenever designated or necessary; and 
Dec 2018  
(j)  think and reason in a critical and creative mind, especially in applying different 
computing technologies to interactive Web applications. 
 
Subject 
Topic 
Synopsis/ 
Indicative  1.  Introduction to Distributed Client/Server Web and Internet Computing 
Syllabus 
Client/server evolution and its relation to Internet computing; overview of 
  Internet services including file servers, database servers, transaction servers, 
web servers; concepts  of two-tier versus three-tier architectures;  network 
infrastructure and support for Web computing. 
2.  Web-Based Client/Server Computing  
Revolution  of  Web  as  the  intergalactic  client/server  Internet  computing 
platform; web model. Web protocols and hypertext technology; HTTP data 
representation  and  response;  interactive  Web-based  client/server;  Web 
programming such as JavaScript, ASP, Java Servlets; Servlet, PHP, JSP and 
others. 
3.  Extensible Markup Language (XML) 
XML introduction: XML data modeling such as DTD and XML Schema; 
XML related standards, DOM and SAX; XML data management: Querying 
XML data, XML data storage, and related XML tools and API, such as Ajax 
and GoogleAPI. 
4.  Latest and Future Web Computing 
Recent advancement of Web technologies, Web 2.0 and Web 3.0; Introduction 
to  wireless  Internet;  wireless  Internet  applications;  intelligent  Internet 
computing using agent technology. 
 
Teaching/  This  subject  emphasizes  the  design  and  technical  aspects  of  web  application 
Learning  development.  It is intended to equip the student with knowledge and practical 
Methodology   experience on how to complete a web-based application.   
  The lectures will be used to deliver course material that will be practiced/reinforced 
during the labs and tutorials. 
 
Assessment 
Specific assessment  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to be 
Methods in 
methods/tasks  weighting  assessed (Please tick as appropriate) 
Alignment with 
Intended 
a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j 
Learning 
Outcomes 
Continuous                     
Assessment 
 
55% 
1. Assignments,                     
Tests & Projects 
Examination  45%                     
Total   100 %   
 
Dec 2018  
Student Study  Class contact: 
Effort Expected  
    Lectures  26 Hrs. 
  Tutorials/Lab  13 Hrs. 
Other student study effort: 
  Assignments, Tests, Projects, Exams  80 Hrs. 
Total student study effort   119 Hrs. 
Reading List  Reference Books: 
and References 
1.  Duckett, Jon, Web Design with HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery Set, Wiley, 
2014. 
2.  Myers, Mark, A Smarter Way to Learn JavaScript: The new approach that uses 
technology to cut your effort in half, Kindle Edition, 2013.  
3.  Deitel, Paul J., Internet & World Wide Web: How to Program, 4th Edition, 
Deitel & Associates Inc., Prentice Hall, 2008.  
4.  Godbole, Achyut S. and Kahate, Atul, Web Technologies: TCP/IP Architecture, 
and Java Programming, McGraw-Hill, 2009. 
5.  Welling, Luke and Thomson, Laura, PHP and MySQL Web Development, 
Addison-Wesley, 2008. 
6.  Steelman, Andrea and Murach, Joel, Murach’s Java Servlets and JSP, Mike 
Murach & Associates, 2010. 
 
Dec 2018 