Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP3133 
Subject Title  Chinese Language Processing 
Credit Value  3 
Level  3 
Pre-requisite /  Pre-requisite: COMP1011 
Co-requisite / 
Exclusion 
Objectives  The objectives of this subject are to: 
  provide essential knowledge of computer representation of natural language 
text and practical techniques to handle and process natural language text, with 
a specific emphasis on the Chinese language and its co-processing with other 
languages such as English; and 
  provide fundamental skills to design and develop innovative software systems 
with  natural  language  processing  techniques  and  tools  for  different 
communities. 
Intended  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Learning 
Outcomes  Professional/academic knowledge and skills 
(a)  understand the technical difficulties in representing and processing text written 
or encoded in Chinese; 
(b)  understand  the  system  support  for  entering  and  displaying  Chinese  in 
computers; 
(c)  understand fundamental Chinese language (and natural language in general) 
processing concepts, processes and major problems; 
(d)  understand  the  applications  of  Chinese  (and  natural  language  in  general) 
processing; 
(e)  apply fundamental knowledge and advanced techniques of natural language 
processing to develop textual information processing systems; and 
(f)  handle multi-lingual text representation and processing issues. 
Attributes for all-roundedness 
(g)  solve problems using systematic approaches; and 
(h)  learn independently and be able to search for the information required in solving 
problems. 
Dec 2018  
Subject 
Topic 
Synopsis/ 
Indicative  1.  Representation, Input and Output of Chinese Characters 
Syllabus 
Chinese  and  Universal  Character  Set  Standards  (such  as  GB,  Big5  and 
Unicode), Character Encoding Schemes (such as ISO2022, EUC and UTF), 
Code  Set  Compatibility  Issues,  Chinese  Character  Input  and  Output 
Processing. 
2.  Fundamental of (Chinese) Natural Language Processing 
Morphological  Analysis,  Word  Stemming  and  Segmentation,  Syntactic 
Analysis and Sentence Parsing, Semantic Analysis and Sense Disambiguation, 
Discourse Analysis and Co-Reference Resolution. 
3.  Selected Topics in (Chinese) Natural Language Processing Applications 
Language Modeling, Opinion Mining and Sentiment Classification, Dialogue 
and  Conversation  System,  Question  Answering  and  Summarization, 
Information Retrieval and Extraction, Machine Translation, etc. 
 
 
Teaching/  Lectures  teach  students  on  the  main  concepts  of  the  course,  together  with 
Learning  comprehensive  examples,  class  exercises  or  questions  and  answers  for  easy 
Methodology  understanding.  
Tutorials and lab sessions offer the opportunity for students to review the lecture 
materials and master the practical techniques and necessary tools for effective system 
and application development.  
Project and/or assignments give students the opportunity to develop analytical and 
problem  solving  skills  through  system  implementation  and  interpersonal 
communication. 
 
Assessment 
Specific assessment  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to be 
Methods in 
methods/tasks  weighting  assessed (Please tick as appropriate) 
Alignment with 
Intended 
a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h 
Learning 
Outcomes 
Continuous                 
Assessment 
1. Assignments                 
2. Lab Exercises  55%                 
3. Project/                 
Presentation 
4. Mid-Term                 
Examination  45%                 
Total   100 %   
 
Dec 2018 Student Study  Class contact: 
Effort Expected  
  Lecture  26 Hrs. 
  Laboratory  13 Hrs. 
Other student study effort: 
  Self-study  40 Hrs. 
  Homework, Quizzes and Assignments  40 Hrs. 
Total student study effort   119 Hrs. 
Reading List  Reference Books: 
and References 
1.  Lunde, Ken, CJKV Information Processing: Chinese, Japanese, Korean and 
Vietnamese Information Processing, O’Reilly & Associates, 2008. 
2.  Huang, J.K.T. and Huang, T.D., An Introduction to Chinese, Japanese and 
Korean Computing, Singapore: World Scientific, 1989. 
3.  Jurafsky, Dan and Martin, James H., Speech and Language Processing, An 
Introduction to Natural Language Processing, Computational Linguistics and 
Speech Recognition, 2008. 
4.  Manning, Christopher D. and Schütze, Hinrich, Foundations of Statistical 
Natural Language Processing, The MIT Press, 1999. 
5.  Bird, Steven, Klein, Ewan and Loper, Edward, Natural Language Processing 
with Python: Analyzing Text with the Natural Language Toolkit, O’Reilly 
Media, 2009. 
 
Dec 2018 