Subject Description Form 
Subject Code  COMP 4911 / 4912 
Subject Title  Capstone Project I / II 
Credit Value  3 credits for each semester subject 
Level  4 
Pre-requisite/ Co- Pre-requisite: COMP 4911 for taking COMP 4912 
requisite/ Exclusion  Exclusion: COMP 4921 / COMP 451 
Objectives  The objectives of this subject are to: 
1.  provide  a  student  the  opportunities  to  apply  and 
integrate his/her knowledge acquired throughout the 
undergraduate study. 
2.  develop the capabilities of a student in analyzing and 
solving complex and possibly real-case problems. 
3.  train students with skills on systematic development 
and documentation of a significant piece of work. 
Intended Learning  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Outcomes   
Professional/academic knowledge and skills 
(a) conduct literature survey to locate for materials and 
sources relevant to the selected problem area; 
(b) understand  the  materials  obtained  and  connect  the 
materials with the problem to be solved; 
(c) define and specify the problem precisely; 
(d) assimilate  and  apply  the  knowledge  learnt  in 
generating good solutions to the problem; 
(e) think critically the formulation of alternative models 
and  solutions  to  the  problem,  in  the  analysis  of 
approaches to the solution and their implementation; 
(f) evaluate the final outcome in an objective manner; 
 
Attributes for all-roundedness 
(g) improve presentation and communicate skills via oral 
presentation;  
(h) enhance  technical  report  writing  skills  with  proper 
organization of materials; 
(i)  develop  the  ability  to  learn  independently  and  to 
find/integrate  information  from  different  sources 
required in solving real-life problems; 
(j)  manage the project efficiently and effectively through 
the assistance and supervision of the supervisor and/or 
other students working together. 
Subject Synopsis/  1.  In-depth study of a topic proposed by the supervisor 
Indicative Syllabus  2.  Project meeting and planning 
3.  Proposal writing 
4.  Regular progress checking and reporting 
Last update in April 2015 5.  Project documentation 
6.  Presentation and demonstration 
 
Teaching/Learning  The  capstone  project  is  structured  as  a  sequence  of  two 
Methodology  subjects. Physically, it spans across the academic year for two 
consecutive semesters. COMP 4912 will be the continuation 
of COMP 4911, and the topic of the two subjects for a student 
should be the same and normally being supervised by the 
same academic staff. Both COMP 4911 and COMP 4912 will 
be assessed on individual basis. 
 
The total student effort required per student is approximately 
240 hours (120 hours for each semester) of project meetings, 
laboratory work and independent study for a normal student, 
which  includes  the  total  time  spent  on  literature  search, 
background reading, fact finding, project development, report 
writing, and presentation preparation and demonstration. The 
actual amount of time spent may vary for individuals. 
 
Capstone Projects are normally sponsored by academic staff 
of  the  department  or  in  conjunction  with  external 
organizations  or  other  departments  in  the  university. 
However, students may propose a topic along an area of their 
research  interest  contingent  upon  the  condition  that  they 
could  find  an  interested  academic  staff  to  supervise  the 
project. 
 
Capstone Projects should be problem-oriented and there is no 
restriction to the nature of the problem except that it should 
be relevant to the computing discipline and there must be a 
computing  element  in  the  project.  The  project  could  be 
practical,  academic  or  a  hybrid  in  which  the  student  is 
encouraged  but  not  constrained  to  have  some  original 
contributions. 
 
Each student will be assigned a supervisor who is in charge of 
the  entire  project.  The  assignment  of  supervisor  normally 
follows  a  set  of  prescribed  procedures,  announced  a  few 
months  before  the  academic  year.  The  supervisor  is 
responsible  for  assessing  the  student  based  on  the  set  of 
abilities,  as  laid  down  in  the  “objectives”  and  “intended 
learning  outcome”  sections  above,  that  the  student 
demonstrated. 
 
In the first part of the two-subject sequence, COMP 4911, a 
student will conduct background research on his/her project 
Last update in April 2015 topic. He/she will learn proper project methodology and how 
to  write  a  good  proposal.  A  number  of  seminars  will  be 
conducted,  covering  important  topics  such  as  “research 
methods”, “proposal writing” and “presentation skills”. The 
student will work with his/her supervisor for a good proposal, 
with  additional  advice  provided  by  staffs  running  the 
seminars. Checkpoint short presentations are required of each 
student  on  a  monthly  basis  for  him/her  to  report  and 
demonstrate the progress, besides practicing the presentation 
skills. The deliverables of COMP 4911 include a well-written 
proposal  and  a  milestone  presentation.  The  proposal  is 
normally submitted well before the end of the semester. The 
milestone presentation represents a summative achievement 
of the student in the semester, inclusive of preliminary system 
design, fast prototype implementation, pilot survey or data 
analysis, whichever appropriate, demonstrating the potential 
contribution of the project. 
 
In the second part of the two-subject sequence, COMP 4912, 
the  student  will  work  under  close  supervision  of  the 
supervisor to complete the project described in the proposal. 
The student should meet the supervisor regularly, reporting 
his/her  progress  and  seeking  advice.  Self-discipline  is  an 
important element in the assessment of the project, besides 
the more obvious deliverables, write up and presentation. The 
final deliverables include a final report concluding the whole 
project throughout the two semesters, an oral presentation, 
and/or a video demonstration about the final “product”. 
 
The  assessment  of  the  two-staged  Capstone  Project  is 
administered by an assessment panel, of which the supervisor 
is an ex officio member, both in the first and second part. The 
assessment panels for the two semesters do not necessarily 
need to be identical. 
 
Assessment Methods in   
Alignment with  Specific  %  Sem  Intended  subject  learning 
Intended Learning  Assessment  weighing  outcomes to be assessed 
Methods/ 
Outcomes  a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j 
Tasks 
Continuous  100  1                     
Assessment 
(COMP4911) 
Continuous  100  2                     
Assessment 
(COMP4912) 
 
 
Last update in April 2015 Explanation of the appropriateness of the assessment methods 
in assessing the intended learning outcomes: 
The  capstone  project  will  be  evaluated  by  an  assessment 
panel, of which the supervisor is an ex officio member. The 
supervisor is expected to contribute to 30 % of the total grade 
in the first semester and 60% of the total grade in the second 
semester. Attributes to be assessed include, but not limited to, 
Problem Identification, Problem Solving, Communication and 
Presentation, Project Management, and Self-Discipline. 
 
Additional moderation might be required on the projects. This 
could take the form of a judging (and arbitration) panel to 
consider all projects with high and low grades for fairness and 
quality assurance for their final grades, and to recommend 
best project award candidates. The judging panel also helps to 
resolve any disagreement among members in the assessment 
panel. Some other projects may also be moderated so as to 
even out any undue differences. 
 
Student study effort  Class Contact: 
expected  Seminars/Presentations/Class Activities  [26] hours 
(COMP4911 only) 
Other student study effort: 
Searching  and  reading  materials,  attending  214  hours 
seminars,  meeting  with  supervisor  /  other  for  two 
students, design, program development, testing,  semesters 
documentation, presentation etc. 
(for both COMP4911 & COMP4912) 
Total student study effort (for two semesters)  240 hours 
Reading list and  Reference Books: 
references  1.  Kumar, R. Research Methodology: A Step-by-step Guide 
for Beginners, Third Edition, SAGE Publications, 2011. 
2.  Burns,  R.B.  Introduction  to  Research  Methods,  Fourth 
Edition, SAGE Publications, 2000. 
3.  Roberts, C.M. The Dissertation Journey: A Practical and 
Comprehensive  Guide  to  Planning,  Writing,  and 
Defending  Your  Dissertation,  Second  Edition,  Corwin 
Press, 2010. 
4.  Mauch, J.E., Park, N. Guide to the Successful Thesis and 
Dissertation: A Handbook for Students and Faculty, Fifth 
Edition, Marcel Dekker, 2003. 
5.  Rudestam,  K.E.,  Newton,  R.R.  Surviving  Your 
Dissertation:  A  Comprehensive  Guide  to  Content  and 
Process, Third Edition, Sage Publications, 2007. 
6.  Garson, G.D. Guide to Writing Empirical Papers, Theses 
and Dissertations, Marcel Dekker, 2002. 
Last update in April 2015 7.  Oshima, A. Writing Academic English, Fourth Edition, 
Pearson Longman, 2006. 
8.  APA. Publication Manual of The American Psychological 
Association,  Sixth  Edition,  American  Psychological 
Association, 2010. 
9.  Szuchman,  L.T.  Writing  with  Style:  APA  Style  Made 
Easy, Fifth Edition, Wadsworth/Cengage Learning, 2011. 
10. Statistics, simulation, programming, and relevant books. 
11. ACM and IEEE magazines, Transactions and Journals. 
12. Other International Journals. 
13. Relevant  conference  proceedings  and  magazines 
(including ACM and IEEE conferences). 
14. Technical reports from universities and major companies. 
 
Last update in April 2015 