Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP3334 
Subject Title  Computer Systems Security     
Credit Value  3 
Level  3 
Pre-requisite /  Pre-requisite: COMP2432  
Co-requisite / 
Exclusion   
Objectives  To equip students with a foundational understanding of the threats to computer 
systems. Students will be equipped to: 
 
  understand the practical principles and models for protecting computer systems 
from various forms of attacks; 
  understand the major security issues and problems in computer systems, and the 
countermeasures to mitigate the corresponding attacks; and 
  acquire practical skills in using various tools and resources to analyze the 
security of computer systems, particularly the web systems. 
Intended  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Learning 
Outcomes  Professional/academic knowledge and skills 
  (a)  understand the major security threats to computer systems and software, and the 
countermeasures to mitigate the corresponding attacks; 
(b)  understand the major security threats to web systems and the countermeasures 
to mitigate the corresponding attacks; 
(c)  acquire practical skills, such as reverse engineering of software, forensics of 
computer systems, malware analysis, security of web servers, and security of 
web browsers. 
Attributes for all-roundedness 
(d)  acquire critical and independent analytical skills in the process of analyzing the 
security problems in computer systems; and 
(e)  acquire the skill of synthesizing various security problems into a small set of 
fundamental security issues and solutions. 
 
Subject 
Topic 
Synopsis/ 
Indicative  1.  Overview 
Syllabus 
Security goals and policies, types of attacks, threat models, and review of basic 
  cryptography. 
Dec 2018 2.  Authentication 
Password  systems,  one-time  passwords,  strong  password  protocols,  and 
password  authentication  protocols,  key  agreement  protocols  (e.g.  MQV, 
HMQV) 
3.  Software Exploits and Countermeasures 
Buffer  overflow,  memory  protection  and  corruption,  principles  of  secure 
coding, code audit and review, software penetration testing, malicious codes, 
rootkits, malwares, and browser security. 
4.  Web Security 
Input validation, SQL injection, cross-site scripting, cross-site request forgery, 
unvalidated  redirects  and  forwards,  broken  authentication  and  session 
management, and security misconfiguration. 
5.  Contemporary Topics 
Sandboxing, side-channel attacks, private browsing, etc.  
Workshops: 
A series of workshops will be given to let students acquire practical experience on 
the different topics.  
Teaching/  The course will emphasize on both the principles and practices of computer system 
Learning  security. The principles will be covered mainly through the lectures and problem-
Methodology   solving activities in the tutorials, whereas the practice aspects will be taught through 
a series of workshops which are designed to reinforce what has been taught in the 
  lectures and to help students acquire practical skills and group projects. 
 
Assessment 
Specific assessment  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to be 
Methods in 
methods/tasks  weighting  assessed (Please tick as appropriate) 
Alignment with 
Intended 
a  b  c  d  e 
Learning 
Outcomes 
Continuous  60%           
Assessment 
 
1. Assignments  25%           
2. Workshops  10%           
3. Project  25%           
Examination  40%           
Total   100 %   
The  examination  and  assignments  are  designed  to  evaluate  the  students’ 
understanding on the principles undergirding the web and software security. The 
workshops, on the other hand, are designed to evaluate the students’ practical skills 
on solving computer system security problems. 
Dec 2018 Student Study  Class contact: 
Effort Expected  
    Lectures  39 Hrs. 
  Tutorials/Workshops  0 Hrs. 
Other student study effort: 
  Self-study (average 6 hours per week)  66 Hrs. 
Total student study effort   105 Hrs. 
Reading List  Textbooks: 
and References 
1.  Bishop, Matt, Introduction to Computer Security, Addison Wesley, 2005. 
Reference Books: 
1.  Anderson, Ross J., Security Engineering, 2nd Edition, Wiley, 2008. 
2.  Kaufman,  C.,  Perlman,  R.  and  Speciner,  M.,  Network  Security:  Private 
Communication in a Public World, 2nd Edition, Prentice Hall PTR, 2003. 
3.  Hoglund, Greg and McGraw, Gary R., Exploiting Software, Addison Wesley, 
2004. 
4.  McGraw, Gary R., Software Security, Addison Wesley, 2006. 
5.  Mann, Scott and Mitchell, Ellen L., Linux System Security, Prentice Hall PTR, 
2000. 
6.  Schneier, Bruce, Applied Cryptography, 2nd Edition, Wiley, 1996. 
7.  Schneier, Bruce, Secrets and Lies, Wiley, 2000. 
8.  Stuttard, Dafydd and Pinto, Marcus, The Web Application Hacker’s Handbook, 
Wiley, 2008. 
9.  Pfleeger, Charles P. and Pfleeger, Shari Lawrence, Security in Computing, 4th 
Edition, Prentice Hall PTR, 2006. 
10.  Gollmann, Dieter, Computer Security, 3rd Edition, Wiley, 2011. 
 
Dec 2018 