Subject Description Form 
 
 
Subject Code  COMP1B03 
Subject Title  Innovation and Entrepreneurship: The Rise of the ICT Industry in China 
Credit Value  3 
Level  1 
Medium of  English 
Instruction 
Pre-requisite and/or  Nil 
Exclusion(s)   
Objectives  Specific objectives of the subject:  
 
 
After joining the WTO in early 2000, China has been rapidly integrated into the global 
economy. To expand its domestic market and place less emphasis on export growth, 
innovative technological companies are emerging with new jobs and revenues created. 
Among the many technopreneurial industries, China's ICT industry is the largest 
manufacturing  sector  within  the  Chinese  economy.  Very  often,  Beijing’s 
Zhongguancun is often hailed as China’s new Silicon Valleys.  
 
The objectives of this subject are to introduce students of the significance of 
entrepreneurship and use the China ICT experience to elaborate the entrepreneurial 
process - from identifying innovations, evaluating good business opportunities to new 
venture start-up and growth issues, and proper entrepreneurial behavior which is a 
critical success factor in new venture creation. This subject will first begin with the 
discussion of the entrepreneurial process in China. It then reviews how China has 
attained its leading position and presents a China’s ICT development model with 
specific reference to the experiences of East Asian 'tigers'. It continue to show how the 
development  of  the  IT  industry  was  military-driven  before  1978,  and  how 
subsequently Chinese policymakers,  struggling with domestic  market reform and 
challenged by trade liberalization and globalization, managed to push through ICT 
development strategies. Students will also learn about the recent advancement of IT 
developments in China.  
 
Assignments and projects will be centered on understanding of the innovative ideas 
and the processes for the established IT entrepreneurial companies in China. Case 
studies, invited speakers and company visits will be arranged to assist students to 
know the most recent on-going activities in this area. 
 
Intended Learning  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Outcomes   
a.  Develop a thorough understanding of the entrepreneurial process and its 
 
components 
b.  Understand the factors leading to the proliferation of start ups in China 
c.  Learn about the recent IT development and understand how and why 
entrepreneurs in China were able to start up information technology based 
companies 
d.  Work as a team in applying the knowledge learned for designing and drafting 
a business proposal to carry our an IT entrepreneurial project 
 
Relationship  between  the  learning  outcomes  with  the  following  three  essential 
features: Literacy, Higher order thinking, and Life-long learning 
 
Last update in July 2014 Literacy: 
This subject will require students to do some self-study as well as to both read relevant 
materials and to write critically about different issues in their own words and with 
their own thinking. Students will be required to understand the entrepreneurial 
process, appreciate the history of ICT development in China, review the economic 
environment during different periods, and to understand the success factors of the 
different IT entrepreneurial companies in China. 
 
Higher-Order Thinking: 
Learning outcomes (a) and (d) are designed to teach and to train students’ higher-order 
thinking and problem-solving skills. Students will be required to critically review the 
success factors of entrepreneurial companies and the recent ICT developments. They 
would be asked to formulate a business plan for an ICT entrepreneurial project to 
reinforce their understanding. They will be required to research, contrast, present and 
defend conflicting points of view for why the success or failure of different ICT 
startup companies in China. 
 
Life-Long Learning: 
As ICT progresses and becomes more ubiquitous, new opportunities would arise. 
Understanding the past development and being able to identify the critical success 
factors would lead to an advantageous position for entrepreneurial work. The 
knowledge learned in this subject will enable the student to meet these challenges 
effectively and motivate them to continue their learning in this area. 
 
Subject Synopsis/  1.  What is entrepreneurship, evolution of entrepreneurship, entrepreneurial mindset 
Indicative Syllabus   and motivations for entrepreneurship 
2.  Rules and Entrepreneurship; the entrepreneurial process and its components: 
opportunity Identification and assessment; key personal; psychological, 
organizational, industrial and environmental characteristics; business growth 
issues. 
3.  The Puzzle of Entrepreneurship in China and the entrepreneurial process in 
China. 
4.  The Creation of the Electronics Industry: Military Driven Development 1949- 
1978; Dynamic Technological Catching-up and Challenges in Developing the 
Semiconductor Sector in China. 
5.  Twenty years of software development in China; Software industrialization and 
globalization: Opportunities and challenges for China. 
6.  Recent ICT developments in China such as social computing, cloud computing, 
mobile networks, location based services and supercomputers; Factors 
influencing the transition: Education and intellectual property protection. 
 
Teaching/Learning  The subject material will be delivered through lectures, seminars, and tutorials. 
Methodology   
Lectures and Seminars will provide the main body of the subject material and will 
 
take an illustrative, case-based approach. Where appropriate, IT start-up companies 
and/or guest lectures will be used to give the subject material more relevancy to 
entrepreneurial development in China. 
 
Tutorials will provide students with the opportunity for more in-depth study and 
interaction on the lecture materials. Students will investigate, contrast, debate and 
present the cases and concepts from lectures through a number of exercises.  
 
Company visits in Cyberport and/or Science Park, when appropriate, would be 
arranged to enable students to appreciate and understand the set up and operations of 
IT entrepreneurial companies. 
 
Last update in July 2014 Assessment   
Methods in  Specific assessment methods/tasks   %  Intended subject learning 
Alignment with  weighting  outcomes to be assessed (Please 
Intended Learning  tick as appropriate) 
Outcomes 
a  b  c  d 
1. Exercises and Assignments  30  X  X  X   
2. Group project  30      X  X 
2. Tests  40  X  X  X   
Total   100 %   
 
Student Study 
Class contact:   
Effort Expected  
  (cid:1)  Lectures and seminars  26Hrs. 
(cid:1)  Tutorials  13 Hrs. 
Other student study effort:   
(cid:1)  Self study   31 Hrs. 
(cid:1)  Assignments, exercises and projects  35 Hrs. 
Total student study effort   105 Hrs. 
Reading List and   
Reference  1.  Entrepreneurship: Theory, Process, & Practice. (2010). Asia-Pacific 2nd ed. 
Frederick, H; Kuratko D.F & Hodgetts, R.M. Publisher: Cengage Learning. 
2.  Lutao Ning.  China's Rise in the World Information & Communication 
Technology Industry: Industrial Strategies and the Catch-up Development Model, 
Routledge, 2009. 
3.  Shang-Ling Jui. Innovation in China: The Chinese Software Industry, Routledge 
Contemporary China Series, 2010. 
4.  Yang, Keming Entrepreneurship in China, Ashgate Pub Company, 2007 
 
 
Remark: This subject fulfils CAR (COG) and CSR requirement. 
 
Last update in July 2014 