The Hong Kong Polytechnic University 
 
Subject Description Form  
 
Please read the notes at the end of the table carefully before completing the form. 
 
Subject Code  COMP1003 
Subject Title  Statistical Tools and Applications 
Credit Value  1 
Level  1 
Pre-requisite /      Nil 
Co-requisite/ 
Exclusion 
Objectives   
   
Intended Learning  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Outcomes   
a.  develop and extrapolate statistical concepts in data analysis and problem 
solving; 
(Note 1) 
b.  use  software  tools  and  statistical  packages  in  solving  statistical 
applications; 
c.  undertake the formulation of statistical problems through continuous self-
learning; 
d.  demonstrate the abilities of logical and analytical thinking. 
 
 
Subject Synopsis/ 
1.  Problem and Application Formulation 
Indicative Syllabus 
  Analysis of problems; formulation of solution; use of tools (e.g. Excel) to 
generate fast solutions (e.g. finding the standard deviation of a data set); 
(Note 2)  
handling large data sets. 
2.  Graphing 
  Excel: use of formulae; statistical functions; graph plotting; application of 
graph plotting, e.g. scattered plot. 
3.  Random variables 
  Excel: generation of random variables in various distributions; modeling 
using random variables; Monte Carlos simulation techniques and 
applications. 
4.  Regression 
  Excel: regression functions; regression analysis; SPSS: data definition; 
regression analysis. 
 
 
Teaching/Learning 
Practical problem solving and case study will be supported via hands-on 
Methodology  
experience in laboratories. 
 
(Note 3) 
8.2010  Definitive Programme Document and Programme File C4 - 1  
Assessment Methods 
in Alignment with  Specific assessment  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to 
Intended Learning  methods/tasks   weighting  be assessed (Please tick as 
Outcomes  appropriate) 
(Note 4)  a  b  c  d  e   
1.Lab work, home- 100%  X  X  X  X     
work, quizzes and 
mid-term test 
Total   100 %   
 
Explanation of the appropriateness of the assessment methods in assessing the 
intended learning outcomes: 
 
 
Student Study  Class contact:   
Effort Expected 
  Laboratory  21 Hrs. 
 
Other student study effort:   
  Self studying  14 Hrs. 
Total student study effort   35 Hrs. 
Reading List and  [1] M.R. Middleton. Data analysis using Microsoft Excel: updated for Office XP, 3rd 
References  edition, Brooks/Cole/Thomson Learning, 2004. 
[2] D.M. Levine. Statistics for managers using Microsoft Excel, 5th edition, 
Pearson/Prentice Hall, 2008. 
[3] S.L. Weinberg and S.K. Abramowitz. Statistics using SPSS: an integrative 
approach, 2nd edition, Cambridge University Press, 2008. 
 
Note 1:  Intended Learning Outcomes 
Intended learning outcomes should state what students should be able to do or attain upon completion of the subject. 
Subject outcomes are expected to contribute to the attainment of the overall programme outcomes.    
 
Note 2:  Subject Synopsis/ Indicative Syllabus 
The syllabus should adequately address the intended learning outcomes. At the same time over-crowding of the 
syllabus should be avoided.  
 
Note 3:  Teaching/Learning Methodology 
This section should include a brief description of the teaching and learning methods to be employed to facilitate 
learning, and a justification of how the methods are aligned with the intended learning outcomes of the subject.  
 
Note 4:  Assessment Method 
This section should include the assessment method(s) to be used and its relative weighting, and indicate which of the 
subject intended learning outcomes that each method purports to assess. It should also provide a brief explanation of 
the appropriateness of the assessment methods in assessing the intended learning outcomes.  
8.2010  Definitive Programme Document and Programme File C4 - 2 