 
 
Subject Code  COMP 2S01, COMP2S01S 
Subject Title  Technology Beyond Borders: Service Learning across 
Cultural, Ethnic and Community Lines 
Credit Value  3 
Level  2 
Pre-requisite/ Co- Nil 
requisite/ Exclusion 
Objectives  The objectives of this subject are: 
1.  To introduce the concept and practice of learning through 
community service to our students. 
2.  To increase our students’ awareness and knowledge of 
communities that are culturally, ethnically or socially 
distinct from their own. 
3.  To acquaint students with significant issues of social 
needs, justice and ethics related to the information age, 
such as the concept of the information divide and how 
technology may be used to meet these needs. 
4.  To cultivate an awareness of information ethics and 
professional responsibility in our students. 
5.  To nurture a sense of civic responsibility and engagement 
in our students. 
 
Intended Learning  Upon completion of subject, students will be able to: 
Outcomes   
a.  Demonstrate an awareness of the impact of the 
information/digital divide, and the linkage between social 
disadvantages and the availability of appropriate 
technology. 
b.  Demonstrate an awareness of the impact of social status, 
culture and/or ethnicity, and empathy for the 
preconceptions, concerns and needs faced by 
disadvantaged individuals or community groups.  
c.  Articulate the needs of the underprivileged in society, 
analyze complex issues in the service setting and design, 
implement or deploy appropriate and ethical technological 
solutions to meet the needs of the target recipients.  
d.  Work effectively in teams to solve problems encountered 
in planning and delivering the service 
e.  Communicate effectively with clients and/or other 
stakeholders 
f.  Reflect on the relationship between their service learning 
activities and experiences with the academic content of 
the subject, in particular the needs of the underprivileged 
in society and their own discipline and sense of civic 
responsibility, especially pertaining to use and 
deployment of technological solutions. 
 
 
Last update in May 2017  1  
Subject Synopsis/  The topics in the course syllabus cover major issues relevant 
Indicative Syllabus  to community involvement involving individuals from other 
cultures, ethnicities, or social groups through the application 
of technological solutions: 
 
Concept and Practice of Service Learning: 
  Principles, concepts and myths of service learning  
  Benefits of service learning to students, the university 
and the community 
  Ethical issues in service learning  
  Basic concepts and theories of social problems, 
developments and justice   
  Social responsibilities of global citizens as 
intellectuals and professionals  
  Proper attitudes and behaviours in service delivery  
  Developing a service project proposal/plan  
  Effective team work and problem solving skills in 
service-learning projects  
  Reflection as a tool for learning  
 
Discipline-Specific Concepts, Issues and Skills 
  The digital divide.  Who are the ones that have, and 
the ones that do not?  Possible solutions, global and 
local, to the digital divide.   Global and local 
solutions.  Significant efforts such as the One LapTop 
Per Child (OLPC), open source software movement, 
Creative Commons, etc. 
  Impact of social factors, culture, religion and ethnicity 
on the community. Issues of cultural understanding 
and misunderstanding. The nature of prejudice, 
stereotyping, and discrimination, including more 
modern, subtle, and perhaps unintentional forms. 
  Impact of technology on societal needs and 
perceptions. Sustainable technology and impact of the 
lack of access to technology on society: economical, 
cultural, ethnic, political. Possible solutions to societal 
needs through technology.  
  Potential ethical, environmental and societal impacts 
of technology. Proper use of technology. When does 
technology create harm? What are the ethical and 
moral concerns raised by technology?  
  Potential factors impacting the effective use or 
deployment of technology for underprivileged 
communities. Usability, interaction and accessible 
technology. 
 
Last update in May 2017  2  
Project-Specific Concepts, Issues and Skills 
  Specific historical, cultural, and political background 
for off-shore sites (e.g., mainland China, Cambodia), 
or targeted local communities (e.g., refugees, new 
immigrants from mainland China, ethnic minorities 
from South Asia).   
  Health, safety and other issues relevant to the service 
project 
  Specific technical topics relevant to the projects. 
  Moral and ethical concerns specific to the project and 
beneficiaries. 
  Project planning, health, safety and other issues 
relevant to the projects  
 
Teaching/Learning 
e-Learning Module 
Methodology 
The e-learning module is developed and delivered by the 
Office of Service Learning at PolyU, consisting of readings, 
exercises and assessments that are designed to introduce 
students to the basic concept and practice of service learning. 
 
Students are required to successfully complete the e-learning 
module within the first four weeks of the semester in which 
they are taking the subject (for subjects beginning in Semester 
1 or Semester 2) or (for subjects beginning in Semester 3). A 
grade penalty will be incurred for non-completion. 
 
Discipline-Specific Lectures and Seminars 
The lectures and seminars are designed to introduce the 
students to the relevant academic topics and issues.  They also 
provide a forum for the students to discuss these issues.  
There will be opportunities for small group discussions, 
assignments, and presentations – to explore these issues in 
greater depth.  
Assessment tasks (class exercises, reflective essays) will be 
designed to assess the learning outcomes as well as to 
encourage participation. 
 
Project-Specific Seminars, Tutorials and/or Workshops  
The project-specific seminars, tutorials and/or workshops are 
designed to: (a) develop students’ understanding of the 
targeted clients/ underprivileged community, as well as other 
issues relating to the service learning project, (b) provide 
training for students in generic skills in planning and 
delivering the service project. Guest experts and speakers will 
be invited to contribute to some of these sessions as 
appropriate. Where possible, a hands-on interactive format 
Last update in May 2017  3  
will be used.  
 
Students are required to attend all of the discipline-specific 
and project-specific lectures, seminars and workshops and 
successfully complete all of the required assignments/learning 
tasks prior to participation in the service learning project. 
 
Service Learning Projects 
The service learning projects are designed to develop 
students’ creativity, problem-solving, teamwork and 
communication abilities. Projects will emphasize hands-on 
tasks and involve team as well as individual work. Students 
will be encouraged to research on specific problems.  They 
will also be challenged to design and implement solutions, 
applying their discipline-specific knowledge to meet 
community needs. 
These projects may either be local or offshore and the nature 
of the projects may vary.  They can involve the rendering of 
direct service to recipients, development of practical solutions 
to community and societal needs, etc.  In all cases, the 
students will be required to interact with the service recipients 
to understand their needs.  
Examples of projects are: 
  Teaching-based Projects. In these projects, students will 
plan, coordinate and teach short courses on digital 
literacy or STEM (science, engineering, technology and 
mathematics)-related topics. 
  Development Projects. In these projects, students will 
design and develop a technology-based solution that 
addresses some aspect of the digital divide for a target 
community. Examples are assistive technology for 
disabled individuals, or renewable energy for rural 
households.  
 
The projects will involve around 40 hours of frontline service 
and will be designed to be comparable in difficulty. For two-
semester offerings of this subject (e.g. COMP2S01), they will 
be held during the second semester, or, at the earliest, 
commence mid-way during the first of the two semesters. For 
single semester offerings of this subject (e.g. COMP2S01S), 
they may commence during the middle of the semester, and 
extend over the semester break. Overseas projects will 
involve approximately 10-14 days of intensive frontline 
service, while local projects may be conducted during 
evenings and weekends.  
Some projects (such as some particularly challenging or off-
shore projects) may necessitate specific selection 
requirements on participating students. The teaching team 
Last update in May 2017  4  
will make the final decisions on project allocation, but efforts 
will be made to accommodate student preferences on their 
choice of project. For overseas projects, students may also be 
asked to shoulder a portion of their incurred costs. 
Note: For single-semester offerings of this subject (i.e. 
COMP2S01S), part of the service project may be held in the 
break between the semesters. Students will be given a grade 
of “I” (incomplete) after the offering semester. This grade 
will be revised to the final grade by the end of the following 
semester. 
 
Review Sessions, Reflective Journals and Report  
Students will be required to write reflective journals and 
reports both during and after the service learning project to 
demonstrate their ability to: (a) link their service learning 
experiences with the academic focus/discipline-specific 
content of the subject, (b) reflect on their service learning 
experience to identify their learning gains as well as areas for 
future improvements, (c) reflect on their roles and social 
responsibilities. Class presentations of their reflections and 
activities may also be required. 
To guide students in using reflection as a tool for learning, 
and to assess their ability in achieving the above learning 
objectives, reflection and review sessions will also be held 
both during and after the service learning project. 
 
Assessment Methods in  Students’ performance in this subject will be assessed using a 
Alignment with  letter-grading system in accordance with the University’s 
Intended Learning  convention from grade F (failure) to A+. The relative 
Outcomes  weighting of the different assessment components are as 
follows: 
 
Intended subject 
Specific assessment  %  learning outcomes to 
methods/ tasks  weighting  be assessed 
a  b  c  d  e  f 
e-Learning module   Pass/fail             
Class discussions, 
assignments, 
30%             
plans/proposals for 
service. 
Performance in 
40%             
rendering service. 
Reflective 
30%             
journal/report.  
Total  100%             
 
Last update in May 2017  5  
Explanation of the appropriateness of the assessment methods 
in assessing the intended learning outcomes: 
The e-Learning Module includes assignments and learning 
tasks that are designed to assess students’ ability to link 
service learning with the academic content of the subject, and 
their understanding of their role and responsibilities in society 
(ILO f), as well as their empathy for disadvantaged 
individuals or community groups (ILO b). 
 
The class discussions and assignments are designed to 
measure the students’ understanding of the issues discussed 
and to aid their learning process. The students will be asked 
to write proposals and plans for the projects as preparation for 
service. These proposals will also assess their understanding 
of social needs and demonstrate their ability to apply their 
discipline-specific as well as other knowledge and skills to 
deal with issues and problems in the service settings (ILO b 
and c). 
 
The students’ attitude and performance in the rendering of 
service, their degree of engagement with service recipients, 
their collaboration with other students, and relationship with 
collaborating NGOs are obviously indicators of their ability 
to communicate effectively with clients and stakeholders 
(ILO e), their empathy for people in need, sense of ethics and 
civic responsibility (ILOs b, c, f and g), and their ability to 
work collaboratively to apply their knowledge and skills to 
deal with complex problems in the service setting (ILO c, d 
and e). 
 
The reflective journals and reflective reports assess students’ 
understanding of the academic content of the subject and their 
ability to link their service learning experiences with these 
topics (ILO a, b and f), their ability to apply their knowledge 
to the service project (ILO c), their empathy for the less 
fortunate people in the society (ILO b), and their ability to 
reflect on their role and responsibilities in the society (ILO f). 
 
Student study effort  E-Learning Module  10 hours 
expected  Class Contact:   
  Discipline-related Lectures, Tutorials,  10 hours 
Seminars and/or Workshops 
  Project-Specific Seminars, Tutorials  15 hours 
and/or Workshops 
  Reflection and review tutorials and  10 hours 
sessions 
Other student study effort:   
Planning and preparation of project  30 hours 
Last update in May 2017  6  
Rendering of service  40 hours 
Reflection and review  20 hours 
Total student study effort  135 hours 
 
 
Reading list and  1.  Barbara Jacoby and Associates, Civic Engagement in 
references  Higher Education, Jossey-Bass, 2009. 
2.  Mark Warschauer, Technology and Social Inclusion – 
Rethinking the Digital Divide, The MIT Press, 2003.  
3.  Cathryn Berger Kaye, The Complete Guide to Service 
Learning, Free Spirit Publishing, 2004. 
4.  Adams, M., et al. (Eds) Readings for Diversity and Social 
Justice, Routledge (2010) 
5.  Allan Johnson, Privilege, Power, and Difference, 
McGraw-Hill, 2005 
6.  Christine M. Cress, Peter J. Collier, Vicki L. Reitenauer 
and Associates, Learning Through Serving – A Student 
Guidebook for Service-Learning Across the Disciplines, 
Sterling, Virginia, 2005. 
7.  Dan Butin, Service-Learning in Theory and Practice – 
The Future of Community Engagement in Higher 
Education, Palgrave Macmillan, 2010.  
 
 
 
Last update in May 2017  7 