Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP4133 
Subject Title  Information Retrieval 
Credit Value  3 
Level  4 
Pre-requisite /  Pre-requisite: COMP2011, COMP2411 
Co-requisite / 
Exclusion 
Objectives  The objectives of this subject are to: 
  provide the foundation knowledge in information retrieval; 
  equip students with sound skills to solve computational search problems; 
  appreciate how to evaluate search engines; 
  appreciate the different applications of information retrieval techniques in the 
Internet or Web environment; and 
  provide  hands-on  experience  in  building  search  engines  and/or  hands-on 
experience in evaluating search engines. 
Intended  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Learning 
Outcomes  Professional/academic knowledge and skills 
(a)  understand and apply the basic concepts of information retrieval; 
(b)  appreciate the limitations of different information retrieval techniques; 
(c)  write programs to implement search engines; and 
(d)  evaluate search engines. 
Attributes for all-roundedness 
(e)  develop skills in problem solving using systematic approaches; and 
(f)  solve complex problems in groups and develop group work. 
Dec 2018  
Subject 
Topic 
Synopsis/ 
Indicative  1.   Fundamentals of Information Retrieval 
Syllabus 
System architecture; limitations of information retrieval systems; evaluation 
methodology; performance measures; benchmarking. 
2.  Models of Information Retrieval 
Boolean  retrieval  models;  fuzzy  Boolean  retrieval  models;  vector  space 
models;  inner  product  similarities;  cosine  similarities;  term  weighting 
schemes. 
3.  Query Processing 
Query languages; basic query processing for Boolean retrieval models; query 
processing for vector space models; query expansion; relevance feedback. 
4.  Indexing Strategies 
Inverted  file  construction;  efficient  dictionary  management;  indexing  to 
support phrasal search and proximity. 
5.  Text Clustering 
Hierarchical clustering algorithms; adaptive clustering algorithms; k-means 
clustering algorithms. 
6.  Web Retrieval 
Characteristics of the web; spidering; weighting schemes for web documents; 
web link analysis. 
Laboratory Experiment and Tutorial: 
Topic 
1.  Evaluation techniques. 
2.  Ranking techniques. 
3.  Text processing techniques. 
4.  Web processing techniques. 
 
Teaching/  Teaching  is  based  on  lectures  which  include  solving  technical  problems  in 
Learning  information retrieval (aligned to Programme Outcome 6). Tutorials are used to 
Methodology  provide examples of problems and to show how solutions are developed (aligned to 
Programme  Outcomes  4,  5,  6).  The  mid-term  is  administered  to  students  to 
strengthen their technical problem solving ability (aligned to Programme Outcome 
5). There is a project/assignment that students need to write their report (aligned to 
Programme Outcomes 1,4). This project/assignment is typically group work (aligned 
to Programme Outcome 7). 
Dec 2018  
Assessment 
Specific assessment  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to be 
Methods in 
methods/tasks  weighting  assessed (Please tick as appropriate) 
Alignment with 
Intended 
a  b  c  d  e  f 
Learning 
Outcomes 
Continuous             
55% 
Assessment 
1. Assignments, Lab 
30%             
Exercises and Project 
2. Mid-Term  25%             
Examination  45%             
Total   100%   
The project/assignment is suitable to assess all the intended learning outcomes as it 
involves all of them. The mid-term and examination will tests the basic concepts 
learnt by the students as well as to see if the students are capable to use retrieval 
techniques and perform search engine evaluation.
 
Student Study  Class contact: 
Effort Expected  
  Lecture  39 Hrs. 
  Tutorial/Lab  0 Hrs. 
Other student study effort: 
  Project/ Assignment  28 Hrs. 
  Self-Study  38 Hrs. 
Total student study effort   105 Hrs. 
Reading List  Reference Books: 
and References 
1.  Chowdhury, G.G., Introduction to Modern Information Retrieval, London, 
Facet, 2010. 
2.  Grossman,  D.A.  and  Freider,  O.,  Information  Retrieval:  Algorithms  and 
Heuristics, Kluwer Academic Publishers, 2004. 
3.  Baeza-Yates, R.A. and Riberio-Neto, B., Modern Information Retrieval, ACM 
Press, 1999. 
4.  Grefenstette, G. (ed.), Cross-language Information Retrieval, Dorhrecht, The 
Netherlands: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1998. 
5.  Witten, I.H., Moffat, A. and Bell, T.C., Managing Gigabytes: Compressing and 
Indexing  Documents  and  Images,  San  Francisco,  California:  Morgan 
Kaufmann Publishers, 1999. 
 
Dec 2018 