Subject Description Form 
 
 
Subject Code  COMP2A01 
Subject Title  Whose Data is it Anyway? Information and Internet Ethics, Privacy and Security 
Credit Value  3 
Level  2 
Medium of  English 
Instruction 
Pre-requisite and/or  Nil 
Exclusion(s) 
Objectives  Specific objectives of the subject:  
 
 
This  subject  is  intended  for  all  PolyU  students  with  or  without  any  technical 
background in Computing or IT. The objective of the subject is to give students an 
overview  of  the  issues  surrounding  data  and  information  creation,  organization, 
dissemination and use, and the associated ethical and moral issues, including those 
related to ownership, access, privacy, security and community. Students will study and 
consider ethical dilemmas, the uses and abuses of information, tension and tradeoffs 
between information privacy, security and freedom of speech, and the meaning of 
social responsibility in the global information security, including the concepts of 
information justice and human rights. 
 
Intended Learning  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Outcomes  a.  Identify and understand common issues associated with the acquisition and 
use of information, including copyright protection, intellectual freedom, 
 
accountability and security; 
b.  Understand the technological challenges relevant to information protection 
and privacy and the implications and societal consequences of technology 
abuse; 
c.  Understand the different issues and approaches to ethical dilemmas in using 
information and information and communications technologies; 
d.  Apply different ethical analysis approaches to evaluate dilemmas and practice 
problem analysis and decision-making for ethically challenging scenarios. 
 
Relationship  between  the  learning  outcomes  with  the  following  three  essential 
features: Literacy, Higher order thinking, and Life-long learning 
 
Literacy:  
This subject will require students to do some self-study as well as to both read relevant 
materials and to write critically about different issues in their own words and with 
their own thinking. Students will be required to study ethically challenging scenarios, 
and to intelligibly formulate and present problem analyses and solutions from different 
points of view. 
 
Higher-Order Thinking: 
Learning outcomes (c) and (d) are designed to teach and to train students’ higher-order 
thinking and problem-solving skills. Students will be required to extend basic ethical 
concepts to analyzing and solving complex and challenging scenarios. They will be 
required to research, contrast, present and defend controversial and conflicting points 
of view. 
 
Life-Long Learning: 
As technology progresses and becomes ever more intrusive and ubiquitous, the 
Last update in July 2014  1challenges associated with the ethical use of information, and the personal risks to 
one’s own information will become more challenging and complex. The skills learned 
in this module will enable the student to handle these challenges effectively.  
 
Subject Synopsis/  1.  Ethical Traditions and Methods. Morals, Morality, Ethics, and Etiquette. Personal 
Indicative Syllabus   Integrity, Professional Ethics and Social Responsibility.  
 
2.  Philosophy of Information and Technology. Conflicts and Balance between 
Humanity, Nature and Technology. Freedom and Privacy vs. Responsibility and 
Security.  
 
3.  Global Information Ethics. Access, Ownership, Privacy, Security, and 
Community. Intellectual Property Rights. Internet and Social Network ethics. 
 
4.  Internet Security, Risks and Safety. Basic network and Internet security. 
Authentication and Privacy. User and provider responsibility. Security breaches 
and vulnerabilities. Insecure networks. Phishing and scams.  
 
5.  Societal impact of technology. Information leakage and reselling, identity theft, 
computer abuse and fraud. Bittorrent and foxy. Anonymizers, Freenet, crowd 
computing, “human flesh search engine” (人肉搜尋器).  
 
Teaching/Learning  The course material will be delivered through lectures and seminars, labs and tutorials. 
Methodology   
Lectures and Seminars will provide the main body of the subject material and will 
 
take an illustrative, example-based approach. Where appropriate, real-life case studies 
and/or guest lectures will be used to give the subject material more relevancy to daily 
life. 
 
Lab sessions will reinforce the lecture material and make them more tangible through 
hands-on activities related to the technological issues. Students will study, recreate 
and experience the technological challenges pertinent to privacy and security. 
 
Tutorials will provide students with the opportunity for more in-depth study and 
interaction on the lecture materials. Students will investigate, contrast, debate and 
present applications of lecture concepts to real-life scenarios. 
 
Assessment   
Methods in  Specific assessment  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to be 
Alignment with  methods/tasks   weighting  assessed (Please tick as appropriate) 
Intended Learning 
a  b  c  d 
Outcomes 
Exercises, assignments  50% 
X  X  X  X 
and case studies. 
Projects and  50% 
X  X  X  X 
Presentations 
Total   100 %   
 
Student Study 
Class contact:   
Effort Expected  
  (cid:1)  Lectures  26 Hrs. 
(cid:1)  Labs and Tutorials  13 Hrs. 
Last update in July 2014  2Other student study effort:   
(cid:1)  Self study  31 Hrs. 
(cid:1)  Assignments, exercises and projects  35 Hrs. 
Total student study effort   105 Hrs. 
Reading List and  o  Viega (2009), The Myths of Security: What the Computer Security Industry 
Reference  Doesn't Want You to Know, O’Reilly 
o  Johnson (2009), Computer Ethics, Prentice Hall (4 edition) 
th 
o  Quinn (2010), Ethics for the Information Age, Addison Wesley (4 edition) 
th 
o  Articles from International Journal of Cyber Ethics in Education (IJCEE) 
(e.g. J. E. Williamson, “Digital Equity in Schools: An Overview of Current 
Trends”, Jan-Mar 2011, pp. 12-24.) 
o  Articles from Journal of Information, Communication & Ethics in Society 
(JCES) 
o  (e.g., J. D. Rendtorff & J. Mattsson, “Ethics in the bank internet encounter: an 
explorative study”, 2012, pp. 36-51). 
o  Articles from International Review of Information Ethics (e.g., Richard A. 
Spinello, “Privacy and Social ,etwork Technology”, Dec., 2011, pp. 41-16.) 
o  Articles from Journal of Business Ethics (e.g., Wesley Cragg & Dirk Matten, 
“Ethics, Corporations, and Governance”, Feb. 2012.) 
o  Michael J. Sandel (2009), Justice: What’s the Right Thing to Do?, Farrar, 
Straus & Giroux, New York. 
o  Charles E. Harris, Michael S. Pritchard & Michael J. Rabins (2008), 
Engineering Ethics: Concepts and Cases, Wadsworth. 
o  Manuel G. Velasquez (2012), Business Ethics: Concepts and Cases, Seventh 
Edition, Pearson. 
 
Remark: This subject fulfils CAR (HRD) requirement. 
 
Last update in July 2014  3