 
Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP4433 
Subject Title  Data Mining and Data Warehousing 
Credit Value  3 
Level  4 
Pre-requisite /   Pre-requisite: COMP2411 
Co-requisite / 
Exclusion   
Objectives  This subject aims at equipping students with the latest knowledge and skills to: 
    create a clean, consistent repository of data within a data warehouse for large 
corporations; 
  utilize various techniques developed for data mining to discover interesting 
patterns in large databases; 
  use existing commercial or public-domain tools to perform data mining tasks to 
solve real problems in business and commerce; and 
  expose students to new techniques and ideas that can be used to improve the 
effectiveness of current data mining tools. 
Intended  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Learning 
Outcomes  Professional/academic knowledge and skills 
  (a)  understand why there is a need for data warehouse in addition to traditional 
operational database systems; 
(b)  identify components in typical data warehouse architectures; 
(c)  design a data warehouse and understand the process required to construct one; 
(d)  understand why there is a need for data mining and in what ways it is different 
from traditional statistical techniques; 
(e)  understand  the  details  of  different  algorithms  made  available  by  popular 
commercial data mining software; 
(f)  solve real data mining problems by using the right tools to find interesting 
patterns; 
(g)  understand a typical knowledge discovery process such as CRISP-DM; and 
(h)  obtain hands-on experience with some popular data mining software. 
Attributes for all-roundedness 
Dec 2018  
(i)  solve real-world problems in business and commerce using data mining and 
data warehousing tools; 
(j)  learn independently and search for relevant information to write reports to 
recommend appropriate data warehousing and data mining tools; and 
(k)  solve complex problems individually or in groups and develop group work 
skills directly and indirectly. 
 
Subject 
Topic 
Synopsis/ 
Indicative  1.  Introduction to Data Warehousing and Data Mining 
Syllabus 
Introduction to data warehousing and data mining; possible application areas 
  in business and finance; definitions and terminologies; types of data mining 
problems. 
2.  Data Warehousing 
Data warehouse and data warehousing; data warehouse and the industry; 
definitions; operational databases vs. data warehouses. 
3.  Data Warehouse Architecture and Design 
Data warehouse architecture and design; two-tier and three-tier architecture; 
star schema and snowflake schema; data characteristics; static and dynamic 
data; meta-data; data marts. 
4.  Data Replication and Online Analytical Processing 
Data  replication,  data  capturing  and  indexing,  data  transformation  and 
cleansing; replicated data and derived data; Online Analytical Processing 
(OLAP); multidimensional databases; data cube. 
5.  Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery 
Data  mining  and  knowledge  discovery,  the  data  mining  lifecycle;  pre-
processing; data transformation; types of problems and applications. 
6.  Association Rules 
Mining of association rules; the Apriori algorithm; binary, quantitative and 
generalized association rules; interestingness measures. 
7.  Classification 
Classification; decision tree based algorithms; Bayesian approach; statistical 
approaches,  nearest  neighbor  approach;  neural  network  based  approach; 
genetic algorithms based technique; evaluation of classification model. 
8.  Clustering 
Clustering;  k-means  algorithm;  hierarchical  algorithm;  condorset;  neural 
network and genetic algorithms based approach; evaluation of effectiveness. 
Dec 2018  
9.  Sequential Data Mining 
Sequential data mining; time dependent data and temporal data; time series 
analysis; sub-sequence matching; classification and clustering of temporal 
data; prediction. 
10. Other Techniques 
Computation  intelligence  techniques;  fuzzy  logic,  genetic  algorithms  and 
neural networks for data mining. 
 
Laboratory Experiment: 
Topic 
1.  Knowledge discovery lifecycle using CRISP-DM  
2.  Discover Association rules and sequential patterns using Clementine 
3.  Discover Classification rules using Clementine  
4.  Discover Clusters using Clementine 
  
Case Study: 
  Application of data mining techniques to solve real business problems. 
  Attributes leading to success and failure of data warehousing projects tutorials 
when appropriate. 
Teaching/  This subject consists mainly of class lectures and laboratory sessions.  For the class 
Learning  lectures, various cases will be presented to help student understand why there is a 
Methodology   need for data warehouse to be built and why data mining is important for modern day 
business intelligence.  Students will be given time to participate in discussions when 
  the cases are presented.   
All assignments and projects will also be given in the form of different cases collected 
so as to allow students to learn more about how data warehouse and data mining can 
be  and  have  been  used  in  real  business  environment.  For  the  projects  and 
assignments, students are expected to learn independently and think critically with 
minimize guidance. They are expected to practice their writing kills through project 
documentations and report writing. As students will work in teams on the project, 
they are expected to also learn to work with each other collaboratively.   
During laboratory sessions, students will be introduced to popular software products 
from Oracle and IBM that can support the building of data warehouses and the 
mining of them.  Students are expected to solve real data mining problems by using 
the right tools to find interesting patterns. 
Dec 2018  
 
Assessment 
Specific  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to be assessed 
Methods in 
assessment  weighting  (Please tick as appropriate) 
Alignment with 
methods/tasks 
Intended 
a  b  c  d  e  f  g  h  i  j  k 
Learning 
Outcomes 
Continuous  55%                       
Assessment 
 
1. Assignment                       
2. Project                       
Examination  45%                       
Total   100 %   
The assessment consists of written assignments, a group project and an examination.  
For the assignments and projects, they are designed to ensure that students are able 
to achieve the learning outcomes intended for this subject.  They are expected to 
tackle a number of cases drawn from different application areas in business and 
commerce so that they can understand why there is a need for data warehouse in 
addition to traditional operational database systems and why data mining is important 
for modern-day business intelligence.  In addition, students will learn through the 
questions and cases,  when a particular data warehouse architecture  or when  a 
particular data mining algorithm is useful and should be used.  Questions in the 
assignments are expected to help students learning the details of the data mining 
algorithm and the use of popular data mining software.  They are also expected to 
use such popular tool as Oracle Warehouse Builder to construct data warehouses. For 
the projects, students are expected to work in groups of three to four to tackle a real 
case involving the design of a data warehouse or the use of data mining to mine very 
large data bases.  They are expected to learn how real-world problems in business 
and commerce should be tackled using real-world tools as Oracle’s Warehouse 
Builder or IBM’s Clementine data mining system.  They are expected to learn 
independently and search for relevant information to write reports to recommend 
appropriate  data  warehousing  and  data  mining  tools.  Students  are  expected  to 
practice their writing skills with project document and report writing.  They will learn 
to develop critical thinking and team work skills. 
Student Study  Class contact: 
Effort Expected  
  Lectures/Laboratory  39 Hrs. 
 
  Tutorials  0 Hrs. 
Other student study effort: 
  Assignments and Case Studies  45 Hrs. 
  Projects and Research  25 Hrs. 
Total student study effort   109 Hrs. 
Dec 2018  
Reading List  Reference Books: 
and References 
1.  Chan, K.C.C., Course Notes and Lab Manuals for COMP417, 2009. 
2.  Inmon, W.H., Strauss, Derek and Neushloss, Genia, DW 2.0: The Architecture 
for the Next Generation of Data Warehousing, Morgan Kaufmann, 2008. 
3.  Golfarelli,  Matteo  and  Rizzi,  Stefano,  Data  Warehouse  Design:  Modern 
Principles and Methodologies, McGraw-Hill, 2009. 
4.  Rokach, Lior and Maimon, Oded Z., Data Mining with Decision Trees: Theory 
and Applications, World Scientific, 2008. 
5.  Witten, Ian H., Frank, Eibe and Hall, Mark A., Data Mining: Practical Machine 
Learning Tools and Techniques, 3rd Edition, Morgan Kaufmann, 2011. 
6.  Westphal,  Christopher,  Data  Mining  for  Intelligence,  Fraud  &  Criminal 
Detection: Advanced Analytics & Information Sharing Technologies, CRC 
Press, 2008. 
7.  Cox, Earl, Fuzzy Modeling and Genetic Algorithms for  Data Mining and 
Exploration, Morgan Kaufmann, 2005. 
8.  Liu, Bing, Web Data Mining: Exploring Hyperlinks, Contents, and Usage Data, 
Springer, Berlin Heidelberg, 2009. 
9.  Tsiptsis,  Konstantinos  K.  and  Chorianopoulos,  Antonios,  Data  Mining 
Techniques in CRM: Inside Customer Segmentation, Wiley, 2010.  
10.  Han, Jiawei and Kamber, Micheline, Data Mining: Concepts and Techniques, 
2nd Edition, Morgan Kaufmann, 2005. 
11.  Shapiro, A.F. and Jain, L.C., Intelligent and Other Computational Techniques 
in Insurance: Theory and Applications, World Scientific, 2003. 
 
Dec 2018 