Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP4011 
Subject Title  Theory of Computation 
Credit Value  3 
Level  4 
Pre-requisite /  Pre-requisite: COMP3011 
Co-requisite / 
Exclusion 
Objectives  The objectives of this subject are to: 
  provide students with concepts in theory of computation; and 
  develop students’ ability for comprehending mathematical proofs (in theory of 
computation). 
Intended  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Learning 
Outcomes  Professional/academic knowledge and skills 
(a)  analyze and design automata and Turing machines; 
(b)  prove basic (mathematical) results in theory of computation; and 
(c)  demonstrate the understanding in computability, decidability, and complexity. 
Attributes for all-roundedness 
(d)  solve problems independently; and 
(e)  think critically for improvement in solutions. 
 
Subject 
Topic 
Synopsis/ 
Indicative  1.  Automata 
Syllabus 
Finite automata (DFA, NFA). 
2.  Regular Expressions and Languages 
Regular  expressions,  conversion  between  DFA  and  regular  expressions, 
properties of regular languages. 
3.  Context-free Grammars and Languages 
Context-free grammars, parse trees, ambiguity in grammars, normal forms, 
Chomsky hierarchy. 
4.  Pushdown Automata 
Pushdown automata (PDA), pumping lemma, properties of PDA. 
Dec 2018 5.  Turing Machines 
Turing machines (TM), extensions to TM, relation to computers. 
6.  Computability and Decidability 
Computability, Church-Turing thesis, the halting problem, other undecidable 
problems, technique of reduction. 
7.  Intractable Problems 
The classes P and NP, NP-completeness. 
8.  Advanced Topics and Applications 
Polynomial-space Turing machines, randomized Turing machines, primality 
testing, cryptography, game theory, quantum computing. 
 
Teaching/  Lectures  provide  students  the  main  concepts  of  the  topic,  together  with 
Learning  comprehensive examples for easy understanding. 
Methodology 
Tutorial sessions offer an opportunity to students for practicing their techniques.  
Assignments help students develop their design and analysis skills. 
 
Assessment 
Specific assessment  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to 
Methods in 
methods/tasks  weighting  be assessed (Please tick as 
Alignment with 
appropriate) 
Intended 
Learning 
a  b  c  d  e 
Outcomes 
Continuous Assessment           
60% 
1. Assignments           
Examination  40%           
Total   100%   
Explanation of the appropriateness of the assessment methods in assessing the 
intended learning outcomes: 
Both assignments and examination are used to test students’ understanding of the 
subject materials.
 
Student Study  Class contact: 
Effort Expected  
  Lecture  26 Hrs. 
  Tutorial  13 Hrs. 
Other student study effort: 
  Reading Book Chapters, Assignments  66 Hrs. 
Total student study effort   105 Hrs. 
Dec 2018 Reading List  Reference Book: 
and References 
1.  Hopcroft,  John  E.,  Motwani,  Rajeev,  Ullman,  Jeffrey  D.,  Introduction  to 
Automata Theory, Languages, and Computation, 3rd Edition, Pearson, ISBN 
1292039051, 2013. 
 
Dec 2018 