Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP1411 
Subject Title  Introduction to Computer Systems 
Credit Value  3 
Level  1 
Pre-requisite /  Nil 
Co-requisite / 
Exclusion 
Objectives  The objectives of this subject are to: 
  introduce students to generic structures and components constituting computer 
systems; 
  educate students to the interplay of computer systems and programming; and 
  expose students to contemporary computer systems composed of miniature 
computers and multiple computers. 
Intended  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Learning 
Outcomes  Professional/academic knowledge and skills: 
(a)  understand the key components and structures of computer systems;; 
(b)  understand the role of programming in computer systems; and 
(c)  recognize the contemporary development of computer systems towards smaller, 
smarter, and more powerful directions. 
Attributes for all-roundedness: 
(d)  appreciate  the  recent  development  of  computing  technologies  for  lifelong 
learning. 
 
Subject 
Topic 
Synopsis/ 
Indicative  1.  Introduction to Computer Systems 
Syllabus 
Concepts  of  a  digital  system;  overview  of  computer  system  structures; 
computer evolution and performance. 
2.  Computer Systems Structure 
A seven-layer viewpoint: applications, high-level programming languages, 
assembly language, operating systems, instruction set and CPU, microcode, 
logic gates. 
Dec 2018 3.  Computer Systems and Programming 
Information  representation;  program  representation;  compilers  and 
interpreters; systems programming and applications programming; concurrent 
and parallel programs; graphics card and GPU; external storage; computer networks; 
network programming; internet and web. 
4.  Contemporary Computer Systems 
Standalone systems; embedded systems; client/server systems; web-based 
systems;  distributed  systems;  cloud  systems;  smart  devices  and  systems; 
internet of things and integrated systems. 
 
Teaching/  Lectures provide students with the main concepts of the course, together with 
Learning  comprehensive examples, through classworks with questions and answers for easy 
Methodology  understanding. 
Tutorials offer the opportunity for students to review the lecture materials through 
tutorial exercises. 
Homework assignments help students to develop analytical and problem solving 
skills on more realistic scenarios. 
 
Assessment 
Specific assessment  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to 
Methods in 
methods/tasks  weighting  be assessed (Please tick as 
Alignment with 
appropriate) 
Intended 
Learning 
a  b  c  d   
Outcomes 
Continuous Assessment  55%           
1. Class Exercises and 
25%           
Assignments 
2. Quizzes and Tests  30%           
Examination  45%           
Total   100%   
Explanation of the appropriateness of the assessment methods in assessing the 
intended learning outcomes: 
All items are relevant to the assessment of ILO a, ILO b and ILO c, i.e. to understand 
the  key  structure  and  components  of  computer  systems,  the  linkage  with 
programming, and development in contemporary systems. 
Class exercises and assignments are also used to assess forward looking and lifelong 
learning with computer systems development trend, i.e. ILO d. For instance, article 
reading and critique of recent systems could be adopted.
 
Student Study  Class contact: 
Effort Expected  
  Lecture  26 Hrs. 
Dec 2018   Tutorial  13 Hrs. 
Other student study effort: 
  Assignments, Tests, Examination  66 Hrs. 
Total student study effort   105 Hrs. 
Reading List  Reference Books: 
and References 
1.  Warford, J. Stanley, Computer Systems. Jones & Bartlett Learning, 5th Edition, 
2017. 
2.  Bryant,  Randal  E.  and  O’Hallaron,  David  R.,  Computer  Systems:  A 
Programmer's Perspective, 3rd Edition, Pearson, 2016. 
3.  Articles from journals and magazines, such as Communications of ACM, IEEE 
Computer, IEEE Internet Computing. 
 
Dec 2018 