 
Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP2411 
Subject Title  Database Systems 
Credit Value  3 
Level  2 
Pre-requisite /  Pre-requisite: COMP1011 
Co-requisite / 
Exclusion   
Objectives  The objectives of this subject are to: 
    design, develop, implement, and administrate a database system of considerable 
complexity; and 
  possess  enough  background  to  evaluate  various  DBMSs  of  different  data 
models and make the appropriate selection for an organization. 
Intended  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Learning 
Outcomes  Professional/academic knowledge and skills 
  (a)  acquire a good understanding of the architecture and functioning of database 
management systems, as well as to be able to use the associated tools and 
techniques;  
(b)  understand and apply the principles and practices of good database design and 
analysis; and 
(c)  recognize the direction of database technology and their implication so as to 
manage and plan database system developments. 
Attributes for all-roundedness 
(d)  appreciate development of database technologies for lifelong learning, e.g., web 
databases; and 
(e)  build up on team spirit, presentation and technical writing skills. 
 
Subject 
Topic 
Synopsis/ 
Indicative  1.  Basic Concepts of Database System 
Syllabus 
Database and its applications; DBMS design objectives and its components; 
  ANSI/SPARC three-level system architecture; data independence. 
2.  Database Design 
Entity-relationship model; functional dependencies; normalization. 
Dec 2018  
3.  Relational Data Model 
Relational  structure;  relational  languages:  relational  algebra,  relational 
calculus, SQL; relational constraints: entity constraints, referential integrity 
constraints and foreign keys. 
4.  File Structures and Physical Database Design  
File organization; indexing and hashing. 
5.  Application Design and Query Processing 
Relational view definition and management; equivalence of query expressions, 
estimation of query-processing cost, join strategies; embedded SQL. 
6.  Implementation Issues 
Buffer management; transaction processing; concurrency control; crash and 
recovery; security and integrity. 
 
 
Teaching/  This  subject  emphasizes  the  technical/practical  aspects  of  database  design  and 
Learning  development.  It is intended to equip the student with knowledge and practical 
Methodology   experience on the real-life/industrial database application development.  
  The lectures will be used to deliver course material that will be practiced/reinforced 
during the labs and tutorials. 
 
Assessment 
Specific assessment  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to be 
Methods in 
methods/tasks  weighting  assessed (Please tick as appropriate) 
Alignment with 
Intended 
a  b  c  d  e 
Learning 
Outcomes 
Continuous           
Assessment 
 
55% 
1. Assignments,           
Tests and Projects 
Examination  45%           
Total   100 %   
 
Student Study  Class contact: 
Effort Expected  
    Lectures  39 Hrs. 
  Tutorials/Lab  13 Hrs. 
Other student study effort: 
  Assignments, Tests, Projects, Exams  67 Hrs. 
Total student study effort   119 Hrs. 
Dec 2018  
Reading List  Reference Books: 
and References 
1.  Kroenke, David M. and Auer, David J., Database Processing: Fundamentals, 
Design and Implementation, 14th Edition, Prentice Hall, 2016.  
2.  Mannino,  Michael,  Database  Design,  Application  Development,  and 
Administration, 3rd (international) Edition, McGraw-Hill, 2007. 
3.  Silberschatz, Abraham, Korth, Henry F. and Sudarshan, S., Database System 
Concepts, 6th Edition, McGraw Hill, 2011.  
4.  Garcia-Molina, Hector, Ullman, Jeffrey D. and Widom, Jennifer, Database 
System Implementation, 3rd Edition, Prentice Hall, 2008. 
5.  Date, C. J., An Introduction to Database Systems, Addison-Wesley Longman, 
2004. 
 
Dec 2018 