Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP3134 
Subject Title  Business Intelligence and Customer Relationship Management 
Credit Value  3 
Level  3 
Pre-requisite /   
Co-requisite / 
Exclusion 
Objectives  The objectives of this subject are to: 
  understand the key components of business intelligence and its use for customer 
behavior analysis; 
  provide  the  knowledge  in  CRM  /  eCRM,  people  management,  process 
management, customer behaviour and analysis, which are essential for business 
operations; and 
  introduce CRM measurement and business intelligence tools in the market. 
Intended  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Learning 
Outcomes  Professional/academic knowledge and skills 
(a)  understand the key components of business intelligence and concepts of CRM 
in eCommerce environments; 
(b)  build the knowledge infrastructure to support decision making and marketing; 
(c)  apply the latest development in business intelligence / CRM tools; and 
(d)  develop skills and CRM-based business strategies. 
Attributes for all-roundedness 
(e)  improve  presentation  and  communication  skills  (through  case  study 
presentations); 
(f)  learn independently and to find/integrate information from different sources 
required in solving real-life problems; and 
(g)  build up on team spirit, presentation and technical writing skills. 
Dec 2018  
Subject 
Topic 
Synopsis/ 
Indicative  1.  Introduction to Business Intelligence and CRM  
Syllabus 
Applications of business intelligence (BI), overview of BI tools and its key 
components; CRM process; management issues and measurement; customer 
values; CRM initiatives and economic impact. 
2.  CRM Strategies Planning  
Customer strategy; brand strategy; channel strategy. 
3.  Customer Behaviour and Analysis  
Customer profitability; customer buying values analysis; customer profiling. 
4.  Knowledge-enabled CRM and BI Tools  
Knowledge  management  and  data  warehouse;  BI  techniques,  tools  and 
analysis models; eCRM application development; CRM software packages; 
integrated CRM solutions. 
5.  Marketing Strategies 
Mobilizing operations; personalization; customization; loyalty programs. 
 
Teaching/  This subject emphasizes the understanding and designing of CRM strategies with the 
Learning  support of BI. It is intended to equip the student with knowledge and experience on 
Methodology  how to design CRM solutions with supporting evidence.   
The lectures will be used to deliver course material that will be practiced/reinforced 
during the tutorials. Seminars are held for students to discuss in-depth real-life cases 
related to the subject's topics, to give presentations and write reports. 
 
Assessment 
Specific assessment  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to be 
Methods in 
methods/tasks  weighting  assessed (Please tick as appropriate) 
Alignment with 
Intended 
a  b  c  d  e  f  g 
Learning 
Outcomes 
Continuous               
Assessment 
55% 
1. Assignments, Tests 
             
& Project 
Examination  45%               
Total   100%   
 
Student Study  Class contact: 
Effort Expected  
  Lecture  39 Hrs. 
  Tutorial/Lab  0 Hrs. 
Other student study effort: 
Dec 2018   Assignments, Tests, Projects, Exam  80 Hrs. 
Total student study effort   119 Hrs. 
Reading List  Reference Books: 
and References 
1.  Buttle,  Francis  and  Maklan,  Stan,  Customer  relationship  management: 
concepts and technologies, 3rd Edition, Routledge, 2015. 
2.  Sharda, R., Delen, D. and Turban, E., Business intelligence and analytic: 
systems for decision support, 10th Edition, Pearson, 2015. 
3.  Howson, Cindi, Successful Business Intelligence: Unlock the Value of BI & Big 
Data, 2nd Edition, McGraw-Hill, 2013. (e-book in PolyU library) 
4.  Flory, Peter, The Complete Customer Relationship Management Handbook, 
DSC, 2013. 
5.  Baesens, Bart, Analytics in a Big Data World: The Essential Guide to Data 
Science and its Applications, Wiley, 2014. (e-book in PolyU library) 
6.  Dietrich,  B.  L.,  Plachy,  E.  C.  and  Norton,  M.  F.,  Analytics  Across  the 
Enterprise: How IBM Realizes Business Value from Big Data and Analytics, 
IBM Press, 2014. 
7.  Sanders, Nada R., Big Data Driven Supply Chain Management: A Framework 
for Implementing Analytics and Turning Information Into Intelligence, Pearson 
2014. 
8.  Chakraborty, G., Pagolu, M., and Garla, S., Text mining and analysis practical 
methods, examples, and case studies using SAS, SAS press, 2014. 
9.  Troyansky,  O.,  Gibson,T.,  Leichtwels,  C.  and  Bjork,  L.,  QlikView  Your 
Business, Wiley, 2015. 
10.  Harvard Business Review 
 
Dec 2018 