Subject Description Form 
Subject Code  COMP1901 
Subject Title  Seminars and Topics in Information Technology 
Credit Value  3 
Level  1 
Pre-requisite /  Nil 
Co-requisite / 
Exclusion 
Objectives  The objectives of this subject are to: 
•  educate and inspire the students about different aspects of Information Technology 
and its applications; 
•  cultivate students’ global outlook through the local and international social impact 
of Information Technology; 
•  cultivate and develop students’ creative thinking, computational problem-solving 
and logical reasoning skills; 
•  educate students on different aspects of entrepreneurship and the process of 
creating new ventures in the information technology industry; and 
•  engage the students in desirable forms of learning in university, including self-
regulation, autonomous learning and deep understanding. 
Intended  Upon completion of subject, students will be able to: 
Learning 
(a)  demonstrate an understanding and enthusiasm of the different types of computing 
Outcomes 
disciplines; 
(b)  develop problem-solving skills and apply basic computational thinking skills to 
solving simple problems; 
(c)  understand  business  models,  aspects  and  the  role  of  entrepreneurship  in  the 
computing industry; 
(d)  search for information, formulate a project plan, and manage a project with 
initiative; and 
(e)  be aware of the University’s expectations for honest academic behaviors and to 
understand the importance of academic integrity, including definitions and good 
practices by which to stay clear of dishonest behaviors and academic plagiarism. 
Subject  Online Tutorial on Academic Integrity 
Synopsis/ 
Students are required to complete successfully an Online Tutorial on Academic 
Indicative 
Integrity on or before week 5 of the first semester. The students will understand the 
Syllabus 
importance of academic integrity by completing the Online Tutorial.  
 
Aug 2020 Seminars 
Seminars will be delivered by professors, alumni and/or reputable professionals in 
computing. They are designed to educate students about computing, in particular about 
the different areas covered by the streams of study in the Department. The objective is 
to arouse their interest in computing, cultivate their sense of belonging to the profession, 
and educate them about their study options within the Department.  
 
Projects 
Based on the CARE (Computing for Application, Research and Entrepreneurship) 
model/philosophy,  students  will  carry  out  three  computing-related  projects  with 
application, research and/or entrepreneurship elements. The projects are designed to 
develop students’ creativity, problem-solving skills and/or team-work abilities through 
learning and practicing basic concepts in computing. For example, students will work 
in  small  groups  to  investigate  computing  problems,  to  develop  computing 
systems/applications and to create business ideas/models with IT elements. 
Teaching/  Online Tutorial on Academic Integrity 
Learning 
The Online Tutorial on Academic Integrity (OTAI) is developed by the University to 
Methodology 
help the students understand the importance of academic integrity. By going through 
the OTAI, students will be aware of the importance of upholding academic integrity 
during University study. They will also learn about proper citation and referencing 
methods  to  avoid  plagiarism,  and  the  various  supports  that  are  available  in  the 
University. Completing the OTAI is a completion requirement of COMP1901. For 
successful completion of the OTAI, the students need to attempt the pre-test in the 
OTAI, read all four modules in the OTAI, obtain at least 75% in the post-test in the 
OTAI and sign the Honour Declaration before the completion deadline. Students who 
fail to complete the OTAI before the completion deadline will fail COMP1901.  
 
Seminars 
The  seminars  are  designed  to  arouse  students’  interests  about  the 
computing/engineering  disciplines  and  industries.  The  mode  of  delivery  will  be 
interactive and engaging. Students will be motivated to search for information and do 
background reading. They will be encouraged to raise questions and discuss with the 
presenters. Assessment will consist of quiz(zes) and/or individual assignment(s) that are 
designed to enhance their computing/engineering knowledge, to measure students’ 
learning outcomes as well as to encourage participation and interaction. 
 
Projects 
Project-based learning will be used for students to explore/learn different aspects of 
computing (e.g., to facilitate them to make programme choices). For example, students 
will carry out two technical projects (e.g., one system/application-oriented project and 
one data-oriented project) as well as one entrepreneurship project. One of the technical 
projects can be an individual project. The technical projects are intended to teach 
students  to  investigate  computing  problems  and  to  apply  computing  knowledge. 
Lectures and workshops will be held to teach the concepts, and students will then work 
in groups or individually to propose, design and develop a project that is designed to 
Aug 2020 apply and practice the concepts learned. For group projects, students will be given 
opportunities to interact closely with staff and other students, and to develop their 
problem-solving,  teamwork  and  interpersonal  skills.  Assessment  components  will 
consist  of  demonstration,  code  inspection,  presentation  and/or  reports.  The 
entrepreneurship project is a group project, which is intended to develop students’ 
appreciation  and  understanding  about  entrepreneurship  and  the  commercialization 
process for selected information technology topic(s). Students will form a virtual startup 
to apply and practice the entrepreneurship concepts with the application of different IT 
disciplines.  Assessment  will  focus  towards  students’  understanding  about 
entrepreneurship, innovation and creativity, in the form of report and/or presentation. 
In general, appropriate pedagogies will also be used to promote the “Learning to Learn” 
ability of students (e.g., related to open educational resources). 
Note: To widen student exposures and to complement other learning activities, a visit 
or field trip may be organized (e.g., international study tour or local company visit).  
Assessment  Students’ performance in this subject will be assessed by using a letter-grading system 
Methods in  in accordance with the University’s convention from grade F (failure) to A+. The 
Alignment with  relative weights of the different assessment components are as follows: 
Intended 
Learning  Intended subject learning outcomes to be 
Outcomes  Specific assessment  %  assessed 
methods/tasks  weighting 
a  b  c  d  e 
Online Tutorial on 
0%           
Academic Integrity 
Seminars  
Quiz(zes) / Individual  10%           
Assignment(s) 
Projects  90%           
Total  100%   
Explanation of the use of the different assessment methods in assessing the intended 
learning outcomes: 
Quiz(zes) / individual assignment(s) is/are intended to test the students’ understanding 
of the concepts covered in the seminars as well as related computing knowledge. 
Through projects, students can demonstrate their creativity, problem-solving, logical 
reasoning and interpersonal skills. They can also demonstrate their ability to search for 
information, formulate a project plan, and to manage a project with initiative. Through 
business  proposals/plans,  students  can  demonstrate  their  understanding  about 
entrepreneurship. Note that student participation may also be evaluated (e.g., with a 
participation grade). 
In order to pass this subject, students must obtain a Grade D or above for total marks in 
the seminars and projects components, and passed the online tutorial on academic 
integrity on or before Week 5 of the first semester. 
Aug 2020 Student Study  Class Contact: 
Effort Expected 
Seminars  6 Hrs. 
Projects (average 10 hours per project)  30 Hrs. 
Other student study effort: 
Online tutorial on academic integrity, self-study,  69 Hrs. 
information search, meetings and discussions, assignments, 
projects, etc. 
Total student study effort  105 Hrs. 
Reading List  Reference Books: 
and References 
1.  H. Scott Fogler and Steven E. LeBlanc, Strategies for Creative Problem Solving, 
Prentice Hall, Third Edition, 2014. 
2.  Timothy  J.  O’Leary,  Linda  I.  O’Leary,  and  Daniel  A.  O’Leary.  Computing 
Essentials: Making IT Work for You, Complete 2015, McGraw Hill, 2015. 
3.  David Wolber, Hal Abelson, Ellen Spertus and Liz Looney, App Inventor 2: 
Create Your Own Android Apps, O’Reilly, Second Edition, 2014. 
4.  Lakshmi Prayaga, Jeffrey Hawthorne, and Alex Whiteside, Android App Inventor 
for the Absolute Beginner, Cengage Learning PTR, 2014. 
5.  Tyler, Jason, App Inventor for Android: Build Your Own Apps - No Experience 
Required!, Wiley, 2011. 
6.  K. Allen, Entrepreneurship for Scientists and Engineers, Prentice Hall, 2010. 
 
Aug 2020 