Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP 2422  
Subject Title  Visual Interface and Interaction Development 
Credit Value  3 
Level  2 
Pre-requisite/ Co- Pre-requisites: COMP 2011, COMP 2021  
requisite/ Exclusion   
Objectives  The objectives of this subject are to: 
1.  To provide  students  with  an  overview  of  the  different 
forms of human interaction with computational systems, 
2.  To  provide  students  with  knowledge  of  the  technical 
issues in interface and interaction development,  
3.  To  equip  students  with  computing  techniques  and 
paradigms in interface and interaction development, 
4.  To provide students with a broad view of the state of 
interactive software development in today’s industry. 
Intended Learning  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Outcomes   
Professional/academic knowledge and skills 
(a) understand  the  computational  elements  for  solving 
interactive computing problems; 
(b) possess  the  ability  to  design  and  develop  computer 
systems for different kinds of human interaction; 
 
Attributes for all-roundedness 
(c) develop  skills  in  problem  solving  using  systematic 
approaches;  
(d) identify  and  develop  problem  solutions  in  a  logical 
manner;  
(e) solve  complex  problems  in  groups  and  develop  group 
work. 
 
Subject Synopsis/  1.  Fundamentals  of  Interactive  Computing:  Event-Driven 
Indicative Syllabus  paradigms, Finite-State Machines, MVC model 
2.  Desktop Graphical User Interfaces: WIMP user interfaces, 
Window  Managers,  Desktop  Environments,  Graphical 
Widgets.  
3.  Mobile Interface Programming: Mobile device platforms, 
Embedded Operating Systems, post-WIMP user interfaces 
4.  Tangible Interaction: Physical computing, Sensor signals, 
Physical interaction with humans and the environment. 
Teaching/Learning  This  subject  emphasizes  the  technical/practical  aspects  of 
Methodology  interaction design and development, such as computational 
paradigms  and  programming  languages.  It  is  intended  to 
equip the student with knowledge and practical experience on the design of user interfaces of various form factors. 
 
The lectures will be used to deliver course material that will 
be practiced/reinforced during the labs and tutorials. 
 
Assessment Methods in   
Alignment with  Specific Assessment  %  Intended subject 
Intended Learning  Methods/Tasks  weighting  learning 
Outcomes  outcomes to be 
assessed 
a  b  c  d  e 
Assignments, Tests &  (cid:1)  (cid:1)  (cid:1)  (cid:1)  (cid:1) 
60% 
Projects 
Final Examination  40%  (cid:1)  (cid:1)  (cid:1)  (cid:1)   
Total  100%   
 
 
Student study effort  Class Contact: 
expected  Lecture  26 hours 
Tutorial/Lab  13 hours 
Other student study effort: 
Assignments, Quizzes, Projects, Exams  81 hours 
Total student study effort  120 hours 
Reading list and  (1) Harold  Thimbleby.  Press  On:  Principles  of  Interaction 
references  Programming. The MIT Press (March 31, 2010) 
(2) Dan  O’Sullivan  and  Tom  Igoe.  Physical  Computing: 
Sensing  and  Controlling  the  Physical  World  with 
Computers. Course Technology PTR; 1st edition, 2004 
(3) Stephen  Kochan.  Programming  in  Objective-C.  Sams; 
illustrated edition edition (December 18, 2003) 
(4) Jenifer  Tidwell.  Designing  Interfaces:  Patterns  for 
Effective  Interaction Design. O'Reilly Media; 1 edition 
(November 21, 2005) 
 