Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP4141 
Subject Title  Crowdfunding and E-Finance 
Credit Value  3 
Level  4 
Pre-requisite /  Pre-requisite: Basic concepts of finance and computing  
Co-requisite / 
Exclusion 
Objectives  The objectives of this subject are to: 
    introduce students the concept and potential of crowdfunding and E-finance; 
and 
  equip students with up-to-date and fundamental understanding of crowdfunding 
and e-finance services. 
Intended  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Learning 
Outcomes  Professional/academic knowledge and skills 
  (a)  understand the concept and challenge of crowdfunding and how crowdfunding 
is emerged outside of the traditional financial system; 
(b)  understand different crowdfunding models and how they can be applied for 
funding new ventures and startup companies; 
(c)  familiar with various new e-finance services and the associated technologies; 
and 
(d)  design  and  develop  new  crowdfunding  and  e-finance  business  solutions  to 
increase the competitive advantage of organizations. 
Attributes for all-roundedness  
(e)  acquire critical  thinking and problem  solving skills through problem based 
tasks. 
 
Subject 
Topic 
Synopsis/ 
Indicative 
1.  Introduction to Crowdfunding & E-Finance 
Syllabus 
2.  Types of Crowdfunding: Rewards-based, Equity-based, Debt- based, etc. 
 
3.  Crowdfunding Platforms, Campaigns and Applications 
4.  Peer-to-Peer (P2P) Computing:  P2P Lending, P2P Banking and Other 
Applications 
 5.  Crowdfunding, Microfinance & Startups 
6.  Beyond  Crowdfunding:  Crowdsourcing  and  Monetization  of 
Crowdsourcing 
7.  E-Trading: Technology, Systems and Algorithmic Trading 
8.  Digital  Banking:  Online  and  mobile  banking  services  integrated  with 
innovative digital technologies, e.g. strategic analytics tools, social media 
interactions, and a focus on user experience 
 
Teaching/  A mix of lectures, discussions and case studies. 
Learning 
Methodology   Class activities include lectures, tutorials, lab exercises, creative works and seminars. 
 
Assessment 
Specific assessment  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to be 
Methods in 
methods/tasks  weighting  assessed (Please tick as appropriate) 
Alignment 
with Intended 
a  b  c  d  e 
Learning 
Outcomes 
1. Assignments           
 
2. Project           
3. Quiz           
4. Examination  45%           
Total   100 %   
Explanation  of  the  appropriateness  of  the  assessment  methods  in  assessing  the 
intended learning outcomes: 
Continuous assessments consist of a project, assignments, lab exercises, and quizzes, 
which are designed to facilitate students to achieve intended learning outcomes. Lab 
exercises are designed to encourage students to acquire good understanding of the 
relevant  knowledge,  practice  in  order  to  enrich  their  hands-on  experience  with 
various software tools. The project is designed to enhance students’ ability to acquire 
the understanding and using different knowledge, principles, techniques, tools to 
solve a real problem through team. Quizzes are to ensure the students understand the 
concepts. 
Examination will evaluate student’s understanding and application of crowdfunding 
and e-finance. 
Class contact: 
  Class activities (lecture, tutorial, seminar, etc.)  39 Hrs. 
Other student study effort: 
  Assignments, Quizzes, Projects, Examination  71 Hrs. 
Total student study effort   110 Hrs. 
 Reading List  Reference Books: 
and References 
1.  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crowdfunding. 
2.  David M. Freedman and Matthew R. Nutting, A Brief History of Crowdfunding, 
Retrieved Nov. 2015. 
3.  Kelvin Lawton and Dan Marom, The Crowdfunding Revolution: How to Raise 
Venture Capital Using Social Media, McGraw-Hill, 2013. 
4.  Steven Dresner, Crowdfunding: A Guide to Raising Capital on the Internet, 
New Jersey-Wiley, 2014.  
5.  Franklin  Allen,  James  McAndrews  and  Philip  Strahan,  E-Finance:  An 
Introduction, The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania, 2001.  
6.  D.C. Brabham, Crowdsourcing, Cambridge, Massachusetts; London, England: 
The MIT Press, 2013. 
 
 