Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP4432 
Subject Title  Machine Learning 
Credit Value  3 
Level  4 
Pre-requisite /  Nil (but students are preferred to have some previous exposure to introductory 
Co-requisite /  Artificial Intelligence/Data Analytics concepts and be familiar with basic notions in 
Exclusion  linear algebra and probability) 
Objectives  The objectives of this subject are to: 
  present the basic principles, concepts and models of modern machine learning; 
and  
  introduce  recent  advances  of  machine  learning  technology  with  impactful 
applications in pattern recognition, computer vision and other areas. 
Intended  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Learning 
Outcomes  (a)  understand the major concepts of machine learning models and algorithms; 
(b)  develop basic intuitions into the effectiveness of machine learning techniques; 
(c)  gain knowledge of applying machine learning techniques to various cutting-
edge applications; and 
(d)  design  machine  learning  solutions  to  solve  new  challenging  problems  in 
practice. 
 
Subject 
Topic 
Synopsis/ 
Indicative  1.  Part I: Machine Learning Fundamentals  
Syllabus 
  Linear algebra and probability 
  Numerical computation and optimization 
  Learning tasks: Regression, classification, etc. 
  Performance  issues:  Cross-validation,  Overfitting  and  curse  of 
dimensionality, Bias-variance dilemma, etc. 
Dec 2018 2.  Part II: Models and Techniques  
  Supervised learning: 
o  Parametric vs non-parametric methods 
o  Decision tree based methods 
o  Bayesian models 
o  Neural networks and support vector machines 
  Unsupervised learning: 
o  k-means and hierarchical clustering 
o  Spectral clustering and density-based clustering 
o  Advanced models: autoencoder, embedding techniques, etc. 
  Regression and boosting 
  Feature selection and dimensionality reduction 
3.  Part III: Applications  
  Handwriting recognition challenge, e.g. MNIST 
  Object detection, recognition and tracking 
o  Object feature descriptions: Engineering approach vs feature learning 
approach 
o  Object detection examples, e.g. pixel clustering for face detection, 
etc. 
o  Object  recognition  examples, e.g. face  recognition  via eigenface 
features 
o  Object tracking examples, e.g. human motion tracking 
 
Teaching/  39 hours of class activities including lectures on the main concepts and models, 
Learning  together  with  applicational  case  studies,  tutorials  and  class/group  discussions, 
Methodology  laboratory works and student presentations. Additional reading of research papers 
will be assigned, whenever appropriate. 
 
Assessment 
Specific assessment  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to 
Methods in 
methods/tasks  weighting  be assessed (Please tick as 
Alignment with 
appropriate) 
Intended 
Learning 
a  b  c  d   
Outcomes 
Continuous Assessment           
1. Assignments           
55% 
2. Tests/Quizzes           
3. Project           
Examination  45%           
Total   100%   
Explanation of the appropriateness of the assessment methods in assessing the 
intended learning outcomes: 
Assignment: After-class assessment of the continuous understanding of the concepts, 
issues, models and applications of machine learning techniques by providing answers 
to given questions. 
Dec 2018 Test/Quiz: In-class assessment of the understanding of the concept, issues, models 
and applications of machine learning techniques by providing answers to given 
questions. 
Project: Assessment of problem solving ability in dealing with practical application 
problems by written reports and oral presentations. 
End-of-term  Assessment:  Assessment  of  the  overall  performance  by  a  written 
examination.
 
Student Study  Class contact: 
Effort Expected  
  Lecture/Tutorial/Lab  39 Hrs. 
Other student study effort: 
  Self-study  83 Hrs. 
Total student study effort   122 Hrs. 
Reading List  Reference Books: 
and References 
1.  Hastie,  T.,  Tibshirani,  R.  and  Friedman,  J.,  The  Elements  of  Statistical 
Learning, 2nd Edition, Springer, 2009. 
2.  Shalev-Shwartz, S. and Ben-David, S., Understanding Machine Learning: 
From Theory to Algorithms, 2014. 
3.  Bousquet,  O.,  Boucheron,  S.  and  Lugosi,  G.,  Introduction  to  Statistical 
Learning Theory, Advanced Lectures on Machine Learning. 
4.  Mohri, M., Rostamizadeh, A. and Talwalkar, A., Foundations of Machine 
Learning. USA, Massachusetts: MIT Press, 2012.  
5.  Vapnik, V. N., The Nature of Statistical Learning Theory. Springer, 2000. 
6.  Bishop, Christopher, Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning, Springer, 
2006. 
7.  To be amended and updated at the beginning of the semester. 
 
Dec 2018 