Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP4121 
Subject Title  E-Commerce Technology and Applications 
Credit Value  3 
Level  4 
Pre-requisite /  Pre-requisite: COMP2411, COMP3421 
Co-requisite / 
Exclusion 
Objectives  To thoroughly understand the information technology for supporting E-commerce; 
specifically, the students should: 
  understand applied cryptographic technology and Web security protocols; 
  understand the necessary infrastructure and functional components to develop 
E-commerce systems; and 
  understand the design and application of E-commerce systems. 
Intended  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Learning 
Outcomes  Professional/academic knowledge and skills 
(a)  acquire a good knowledge of e-commerce, both the technical and business 
aspects; 
(b)  understand  the  principles  and  practices  of  e-commerce  and  its  related 
technologies; and 
(c)  design and implement a basic e-commerce application. 
Attributes for all-roundedness 
(d)  follow trends of e-commerce; and 
(e)  build up on team work, presentation and technical writing skills. 
 
Dec 2018  
Subject 
Topic 
Synopsis/ 
Indicative  1.  Introduction to E-commerce 
Syllabus 
E-commerce  fundamentals;  different  types  of  E-commerce;  major 
components; business models; business issues. 
2.  Web System 
Internet  basics;  Web  model;  Web  system;  Hypertext  Transfer  Protocol 
(HTTP); Web programming. 
3.  Cryptography and Internet Security 
Security requirements; basic cryptography; encryption methods; public key 
encryption; message digest; message authentication; digital signature; digital 
certificate; IPSec; firewalls; SSL. 
4.  Internet Payment Systems 
Credit card payment (e.g., SET protocol); E-cash; E-check; Internet payment 
services; smart card. 
5.  E-commerce Applications and Advanced Topics 
Various  E-commerce  applications;  case  studies;  auctions;  advanced  E-
commerce systems. 
Case Study: 
E-commerce applications. 
Teaching/  Teaching is mainly conducted through lectures. 
Learning 
Methodology  Learning is supplemented by exercises in labs/tutorials.  
Students  are  assessed  through  assignments,  a  project,  a  mid-term  test  and  an 
examination. 
 
Assessment 
Specific assessment  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to 
Methods in 
methods/tasks  weighting  be assessed (Please tick as 
Alignment with 
appropriate) 
Intended 
Learning 
a  b  c  d  e 
Outcomes 
Continuous Assessment           
1. Assignments           
55% 
2. Project           
3. Mid-Term           
Examination  45%           
Total   100%   
Dec 2018 Explanation of the appropriateness of the assessment methods in assessing the 
intended learning outcomes: 
The project is used to assess all learning outcomes.  
The assignments and mid-term test are used as continuous assessment methods to 
assess students’ knowledge and understanding about the subject. 
Finally, students are assessed by a formal examination.
 
Student Study  Class contact: 
Effort Expected  
  Lecture  39 Hrs. 
  Lab/Tutorial  0 Hrs. 
Other student study effort: 
  Self-study  66 Hrs. 
Total student study effort   105 Hrs. 
Reading List  Textbook: 
and References 
1.  Chan, H., Lee, R., Dillon, T. and Chang, E., E-Commerce: Fundamentals and 
Applications, John Wiley & Sons, 2001. 
Reference Books: 
1.  Laudon, K. C. and Traver, C. G., E-Commerce 2017, Pearson, 2017. 
2.  Turban, E., Outland, J., King, D., Lee, J.K., Liang, T.-P. and Turban, D.C., 
Electronic Commerce 2018, Springer International Publishing, 2018.   
3.  Stallings, W., Cryptography and Network Security: Principles and Practice, 5th 
Edition, Prentice Hall, 2010. 
4.  Furche, A. and Wrightson, G., Computer Money: A Systematic Overview of 
Electronic Payment Systems, Morgan Kaufmann, 1996. 
5.  Moss, K., Java Servlets, Mc-GrawHill, 1999. 
 
Dec 2018 