 
Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP4434 
Subject Title  Big Data Analytics 
Credit Value  3 
Level  4 
Pre-requisite /  Pre-requisites: AMA1104, COMP1011, COMP2011, COMP2411 
Co-requisite / 
Exclusion 
Objectives  The objectives of this subject are to: 
    introduce students the concept and challenge of big data (3 V’s: volume, velocity, 
and variety); and 
  teach students in applying skills and tools to manage and analyze the big data. 
Intended  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Learning 
Outcomes  (a)  understand the concept and challenge of big data and why existing technology is 
inadequate to analyze the big data; 
 
(b)  collect, manage, store, query, and analyze various form of big data;  
(c)  gain hands-on experience on large-scale analytics tools to solve some open big 
data problems; and 
(d)  understand the impact of big data for business decisions and strategy. 
 
Subject 
Topic 
Synopsis/ 
Indicative 
1.  Introduction to Big Data 
Syllabus 
The 3 V’s, their challenges and application domains. 
 
2.  Collection of Big Data 
Eventual Consistency and NoSQL systems MongoDB, Google BigTable. 
3.  Large-Scale Data Analytics Systems 
Auto-Parallel Data Programming; MapReduce, Hive, and Parallel Databases 
4.  Basic Statistical Analysis 
Fruad and Benfords Law, Bayesian Introduction, Heteroskedasticity 
5.  Machine Learning Systems for Big Data 
6.  Graph Analytics 
Graph  structures  (diameter,  connectivity,  centrality),  PageRank,  Triangle 
counting 
Dec 2018  
7.  Sentiment Analysis 
8.  Data Visualization 
Data types and dimensions; Visual encoding and perception 
 
 
Teaching/  A mix of lectures and lab sessions is used to deliver the various topics in this subject. 
Learning  Lectures are conducted to initiate students with the concepts and techniques of big 
Methodology   data. Students are given the opportunity to gain hands-on experience on both open-
source and commercial big data analytics software during the laboratory sessions. 
 
Assessment 
Specific assessment  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to be 
Methods in 
methods/tasks  weighting  assessed (Please tick as appropriate) 
Alignment 
with Intended 
a  b  c  d 
Learning 
Outcomes 
Continuous         
Assessment 
 
1. Lab Exercises /         
Assignments  60% 
2. Project         
3. Quiz         
Examination  40%         
Total   100 %   
Explanation  of  the  appropriateness  of  the  assessment  methods  in  assessing  the 
intended learning outcomes: 
Continuous assessments consist of a project, assignments, lab exercises, and quizzes, 
which are designed to facilitate students to achieve intended learning outcomes. Lab 
exercise is designed to encourage students to acquire deep understanding of the 
relevant knowledge, practice in order to enrich their hands-on experience with various 
software tools. The project is designed to enhance students’ ability to acquire the 
understanding and using different knowledge, principles, techniques, tools to solve a 
real problem through team. Quizzes are to ensure the students understand the concepts. 
Examination will evaluate student’s understanding and usage of big data technologies. 
Student Study  Class contact: 
Effort 
Expected     Lectures  26 Hrs. 
 
  Tutorials/Laboratory  13 Hrs. 
Other student study effort: 
  Review the lecture  28 Hrs. 
  Review the lab  14 Hrs. 
Dec 2018  
  Work on the project  15 Hrs. 
  Prepare the quizzes  9 Hrs. 
  Prepare the examination  11 Hrs. 
Total student study effort   116 Hrs. 
Reading List  Reference Books: 
and References 
1.  Dolan, J.C.B., Dunlap, M., Hellerstein, J.M. and Welton, C., MAD Skills: New 
Analysis Practices for Big Data, 2009. 
2.  Rajaraman, Anand and Ullman, Jeffery David, Mining of Massive Datasets, 
Chapters 1-2, 2011. 
3.  Stonebraker, M., Abadi, D., DeWitt, David J., Madden, S., Paulson, E., Pavlo, 
A.  and  Rasin,  A.,  “MapReduce  and  Parallel  DBMS’s:  Friends  or  Foes?”, 
Communications of the ACM, January 2010. 
4.  Dean, Jeffrey and Ghemawat, Sanjay, “MapReduce: A Flexible Data Processing 
Tool”, Communications of the ACM, January 2010. 
5.  Lin, Jimmy and Dyer, Chris, Data-Intensive Text Processing with MapReduce, 
Morgan and Claypool, 2010. 
6.  Cattell, Rick, “Scalable SQL and NoSQL Data Stores”, ACM SIGMOD Record, 
Volume 39, Issue 4, December 2010. 
7.  Elmagarmid, Ahmed K., Ipeirotis, Panagiotis G. and Verykios, Vassilios S., 
“Duplicate Record Detection: A Survey”, IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and 
Data Engineering, Volume 19, Issue 1, January 2007. 
8.  Koudas, N., Sarawagi, S. and Srivastava, D., “Record Linkage:  Similarity 
Measures and Algorithms”, Proceedings of the ACM SIGMOD International 
Conference on Management of Data, June 2006. 
9.  Hothorn, Torsten and Everitt, Brian S., A Handbook of Statistical Analyses Using 
R, 3rd Edition, Chapter 3, CRC Press, 2014. 
10.  Gregory Park on overfitting to the leaderboard in a Kaggle Competition. 
11.  Wu, X.D., Kumar, V., Quinlan, J. Ross, Ghosh, J., Yang, Q. and et al., “Top 10 
Algorithms in Data Mining, Knowledge and Information Systems”, Journal of 
knowledge and Information Systems, Volume 14, Issue 1, page 1-37, 2007.  
(Read C4.5)  
12.  Domingos, Pedro, “A Few Useful Things to Know about Machine Learning”, 
Communications of the ACM, Volume 55, Issue 10, 2012. 
13.  Alpaydin, Ethem, Introduction to Machine Learning, 3rd Edition, MIT Press, 
2015. 
14.  Haykin, Simon, Neural Networks and Learning Machines, 3rd Edition, Pearson, 
2016. 
Dec 2018  
15.  Hanaran, Pat, Tools for Data Enthusiasts. 
16.  Heer, J., Bostock, M. and Ogievetsky, V., “A Tour through the Visualization 
Zoo”, Communications of the ACM, Volume 53, Issue 6, June 2010. 
 
Dec 2018 