Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP3511 
Subject Title  Legal Aspects and Ethics of Computing 
Credit Value  2 
Level  3 
Pre-requisite /   
Co-requisite / 
Exclusion 
Objectives  The objectives of this subject are to: 
  be fully aware of the basic set of legal, ethical and security responsibilities; 
  be in a position to think and act as (junior) computing professionals; and 
  be in a position to deal with ethical dilemmas and legal challenges that they can 
expect to face when they start work. 
Intended  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Learning 
Outcomes  Professional/academic knowledge and skills 
(a)  be aware of the ethical and legal issues surrounding the use of computers; and 
(b)  apply the conceptual tools provided in the course to develop analytical skills 
for determining what to do in ethical and legal decision making. 
Attributes for all-roundedness 
(c)  communicate effectively both verbally and in writing as a professional in 
computing; 
(d)  learn independently for problem solving and solution seeking; and 
(e)  think and reason critically, especially on different issues related to computing 
professional in the society. 
 
Subject 
Topic 
Synopsis/ 
Indicative  1.  Computer Ethics and Profession 
Syllabus 
Generic skills; typical scenarios of profession; characteristics of a profession; 
the system of professions; the computing profession; social issues. 
2.  Methods and Tools for Ethical Analysis 
Traditional/philosophical ethics; policy vacuum; social context; competing 
factors in decision making; practical approach/ analysis; sample cases. 
Dec 2018 3.  Computer Crimes and Laws 
Computer criminals; computer fraud; computer sabotage. 
4.   Privacy 
Personal privacy; computer and privacy. 
5.  Software Ownership and Intellectual Property 
Ethical/legal issues of software; intellectual property; property rights; legal 
protection; philosophical basis; consequentialist argument. 
6.  Security 
Fundamental concepts about security, Security at e-commerce, Security and 
legislation. 
7.  Entrepreneurship 
Emerging  technologies;  entrepreneurship  in  computing  profession; 
professional capabilities extended through virtual firms. 
 
Teaching/  This subject emphasizes both ethical and legal aspects of computing professional. It 
Learning  is intended to provide students with knowledge and practical experience on ethical, 
Methodology  technological  and legal issues related to  computing.  Lectures would  cover the 
conceptual aspects. Guest lectures with external speakers provide students with 
knowledge from another perspective. Laboratory and tutorial sessions focus on the 
exercises to gain understanding both of what being a professional in computing 
involves and how they can most effectively deal with the challenges they will 
encounter. 
 
Assessment 
Specific assessment  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to 
Methods in 
methods/tasks  weighting  be assessed (Please tick as 
Alignment with 
appropriate) 
Intended 
Learning 
a  b  c  d  e 
Outcomes 
Continuous Assessment           
1. Assignments           
2. Tests  100%           
3. Projects           
4. Presentations           
Examination  0%           
Total   100%   
 
Student Study  Class contact: 
Effort Expected  
  Lecture  26 Hrs. 
  Tutorial/Lab  0 Hrs. 
Dec 2018 Other student study effort: 
  Assignments, Quizzes, Projects, Tests  31 Hrs. 
Total student study effort   57 Hrs. 
Reading List  References: 
and References 
1.  Quinn, Michael J., Ethics for the Information Age, 7th Edition, Pearson, 2016. 
2.  Tavani, Herman T., Ethics and Technology: Controversies, Questions, and 
Strategies for Ethical Computing, 3rd Edition, Hoboken, N.J.: Wiley, 2011. 
3.  Johnson,  Deborah  G.  and  Miller,  Keith  W.,  Computer  Ethics:  Analyzing 
Information Technology, 4th Edition, Upper Saddle River, N.J.: Prentice Hall, 
2009. 
4.  Kollmann,  Tobias,  Kuckertz  Andreas  and  Stèockmann,  Christoph,  E-
Entrepreneurship and ICT Ventures: Strategy, Organization and Technology, 
Hershey, PA: Business Science Reference, 2010. 
5.  Duening, Thomas N., Hisrich, Robert D. and Lechter, Michael A., Technology 
Entrepreneurship:  Creating,  Capturing,  and  Protecting  Value,  Burlington, 
MA: Academic Press, 2010. 
 
Dec 2018 