Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP2012 
Subject Title  Discrete Mathematics 
Credit Value  3 
Level  2 
Pre-requisite /   
Co-requisite / 
Exclusion 
Objectives  The objectives of this subject are to: 
  introduce students to the concepts and applications of discrete mathematical 
structures; and 
  help students attain the fundamental mathematical knowledge and reasoning 
skills they need to be successful in upper-level computing subjects. 
Intended  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Learning 
Outcomes  (a)  apply discrete structures knowledge and skills to solve real world problems 
using computers; 
(b)  understand the major mathematical knowledge in computer systems; 
(c)  apply the computer programming techniques to solve practical engineering 
problems; 
(d)  acquire mathematical knowledge and skills required to further study other more 
advanced computing-related subjects; and 
(e)  relate learned mathematical knowledge to other computing subjects. 
 
Subject 
Topic 
Synopsis/ 
Indicative  1.  Set, Relations and Functions 
Syllabus 
Sets, relations and functions, equivalence, cardinality, order relations. 
2.   Propositional and Predicate Logic 
Logical expressions; truth tables; tautologies; formal reasoning; predicates; 
quantifiers; proof system; soundness and completeness. 
3.  Discrete Mathematical Skills 
Mathematical induction; counting techniques; inclusion-exclusion principle; 
pigeonhole principle. 
Dec 2018 4.  Graphs and Trees 
Graph, digraph, isomorphism; connectivity; Euler and Hamilton path; shortest 
path  problems;  planar  graphs;  graph  coloring;  trees  and  tree  traversal; 
spanning trees and minimum spanning trees; decision tree and isomorphism 
of tree. 
5.  Basic Network Problems 
Network  flows;  maximal-flow  minimum-cut  problem;  minimal-cost  flow 
problem; applications, e.g., network design, transportation problem. 
6.  Boolean Algebras and Combinatorial Circuits 
Combinatorial circuits and its properties, Boolean algebras, Boolean functions 
and synthesis of circuits. 
 
Teaching/  A mix of lectures and tutorial sessions is used to deliver the various topics in this 
Learning  subject.  Lectures are conducted to initiate students with the discrete structures 
Methodology  concepts  and knowledge that are reinforced by  in-class exercises and quizzes. 
Tutorial sessions are used to provide more opportunity to understand solutions to the 
mathematical problems and to gain hands-on experience on solving real world 
problems by applying learned mathematical knowledge and computing skills. 
 
Assessment 
Specific assessment  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to 
Methods in 
methods/tasks  weighting  be assessed (Please tick as 
Alignment with 
appropriate) 
Intended 
Learning 
a  b  c  d  e 
Outcomes 
Continuous Assessment           
1. Assignments           
60% 
2. Exercises           
3. Quizzes           
Examination  40%           
Total   100%   
 
Student Study  Class contact: 
Effort Expected  
  Lecture  26 Hrs. 
  Tutorial  13 Hrs. 
Other student study effort: 
  Assignments, Quizzes, Projects, Self-study  66 Hrs. 
Total student study effort   105 Hrs. 
Dec 2018 Reading List  Textbook: 
and References 
1.  Johnsonbaugh, R., Discrete Mathematics, 8th Edition, Prentice Hall, 2017. 
2.  Rosen, K.H., Discrete Mathematics and Its Applications, 8th Edition, McGraw 
Hill, 2019. 
3.  Dossey, J.A., Discrete Mathematics, 5th Edition, Pearson Addison Wesley, 
2006. 
Reference Books: 
1.  Truss, J.K., Discrete Mathematics for Computer Scientists, Pearson Addison-
Welsey, 2011. 
2.  Kolman, B., Busby, R.C. and Ross, S.C., Discrete Mathematical Structures, 6th 
Edition, Prentice Hall, 2009. 
3.  Ralph  P.G.,  Discrete  and  Combinatorial  Mathematics:  An  Applied 
Introduction, 5th Edition, Pearson Addison Wesley, 2004. 
 
Dec 2018 