Subject Description Form 
 
Subject Code  COMP4512 
Subject Title  Intellectual Property Protection and Management 
Credit Value  3 
Level  4 
Pre-requisite /   
Co-requisite / 
Exclusion 
Objectives  The objectives of this subject are to: 
  introduce to students the management and protection of intellectual property in 
this  knowledge-based  society  from  the  legal,  technical  and  business 
prospective, with emphasis on the technical prospective; 
  equip students with knowledge of value of innovation and value of protection; 
and 
  introduce to students various techniques for digital right management. 
Intended  Upon completion of the subject, students will be able to: 
Learning 
Outcomes  Professional/Academic Knowledge and Skills 
(a)  understand the value of intellectual property and their protection; 
(b)  understand various measures in the protection of digital content; and 
(c)  use current technologies and tools for the practice of software protection. 
Attributes for All-Roundness 
(d)  recognise the need for continuing development; and 
(e)  have  an  understanding  of  professional,  ethical  and  legal  issues  and 
responsibilities in the use of digital content. 
Dec 2018  
Subject 
Topic 
Synopsis/ 
Indicative  1.  Overview of Intellectual Property Protection and Management 
Syllabus 
IP management prospective: legal, business and technical; IP acquisition: 
purchase, JV, strategic alliances, licenses, patent pooling; the value of IP in 
business  strategy;  the  law  (Copyright  Acts)  and  economics  governing 
intellectual property protection (secrecy and patent), the use of I.P. in the 
digital content industry. 
2.  Intellectual Property Protection 
Copyright, related rights; trademarks and patents; problem of IP theft and their 
solutions. 
3.  Digital Right Management 
Digital rights management in different scenarios including computer software, 
documents,  e-books,  films,  music  and  television.  Also  include  different 
generations of DRM software and their limitations. 
4.  Common DRM Techniques 
Restrictive  Licensing Agreements; Software Obfuscation and Encryption; 
trusted  hardware/  trusted  computing;  reverse  engineering;  digital 
watermarking; steganography; traitor-tracing techniques in encryption. 
5.  Optional Topics  
Opposition to DRM; Alternatives to DRM; DRM system in practice (Adobe 
Adept DRM, Apple FairPlay, Ubisoft Uplay, etc.). 
 
Teaching/  During the lectures, students will come across the common concepts and theories. 
Learning  Those concepts and theories would be further explained with reference to case 
Methodology  studies in the tutorials. 
 
Assessment 
Specific assessment  %  Intended subject learning outcomes to 
Methods in 
methods/tasks  weighting  be assessed (Please tick as 
Alignment with 
appropriate) 
Intended 
Learning 
a  b  c  d  e 
Outcomes 
Continuous Assessment  55%           
Examination  45%           
Total   100%   
Types  of  assessments  included  assignments,  project,  test  and  examination. 
Assignments are designed to reinforce the concepts and theories learned in the 
lecture, by solving bigger problems. Project is used to develop students’ analytic and 
problem solving skills by developing a study report. Test and examination are used 
to assess independent problem solving and critical thinking skills.
 
Dec 2018 Student Study  Class contact: 
Effort Expected  
  Lecture  39 Hrs. 
Other student study effort: 
  Assignments, Project, Self-study, Test and Exam 
66 Hrs. 
Preparation 
Total student study effort   105 Hrs. 
Reading List  Reference Books: 
and References 
1.  Bouchoux,  Deborah  E.,  Intellectual  Property:  The  Law  of  Trademarks, 
Copyrights, Patents, and Trade Secrets, 4th Edition, Cengage, 2013. 
2.  European Union Intellectual Property Office. 
https://euipo.europa.eu/knowledge/course/view.php?id=1738 
3.  Halt Jr., G.B., Donch Jr., J.C., Stiles, A.R. and Fesnak, R., Intellectual Property 
in Consumer Electronics, Software and Technology Startups, Springer, 2014. 
4.  WIPO - World Intellectual Property Organization 
http://www.wipo.int 
 
Dec 2018 